<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE glossgroup PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Glossary Group//EN" "glossgroup.dtd">
<glossgroup id="nwcg" xml:lang="en">
	<title>nwcg</title>
	<prolog>
		<resourceid id="http://firelab.org/cv/nwcg"/>
	</prolog>
	<glossentry id="Six_Minutes_for_Safety">
		<glossterm>6 Minutes for Safety</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A daily safety briefing for wildland fire that focuses on high
			risk events found within a firefighter's scope of work that are
			performed on an infrequent basis.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Six Minutes for Safety</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Abort">
		<glossterm>Abort</glossterm>
		<glossdef>To jettison a load of water or retardant from an aircraft, or
			terminate a preplanned aircraft maneuver.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Abort_Area">
		<glossterm>Abort Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A designated area where unused quantities of water or fire
			retardant may be jettisoned, usually to permit an air tanker to land
			with less than a full load.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Above_Ground_Level">
		<glossterm>Above Ground Level</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Term frequently used in aviation operations, usually in
			connection with a stated altitude.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>AGL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Absolute_Humidity">
		<glossterm>Absolute Humidity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Total amount of water vapor in the air.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Absorption">
		<glossterm>Absorption</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Act of soaking up and retaining a gas in liquid or in a solid;
			also retention of radiant energy.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Accelerant">
		<glossterm>Accelerant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Material ( usually a flammable liquid) used to initiate or
			increase the spread of a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Acceptable_Fire_Risk">
		<glossterm>Acceptable Fire Risk</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The potential fire loss a community is willing to accept
			rather than provide resources to reduce such losses.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Accessibility_Burn">
		<glossterm>Accessibility Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The burning of understory prior to the sale of forest products
			to improve the efficiency of timber marking and
			harvesting.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Action_Plan">
		<glossterm>Action Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any tactical plan developed by any element of ICS in support
			of the incident action plan.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Incident_Action_Plan">
				<linktext>Incident Action Plan</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Active_Crown_Fire">
		<glossterm>Active Crown Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire in which a solid flame develops in the crowns of trees,
			but the surface and crown phases advance as a linked unit dependent
			on each other.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Active_Resources">
		<glossterm>Active Resources</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Resources checked in and assigned work tasks on an
			incident.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Assigned Resources</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Allocated_Resources">
				<linktext>Allocated Resources</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Available_Resources">
				<linktext>Available Resources</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Activity_Fuels">
		<glossterm>Activity Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fuels resulting from, or altered by, forestry practices such
			as timber harvest or thinning, as opposed to naturally created
			fuels.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Logging_Debris">
				<linktext>Logging Debris</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Natural_Fuels">
				<linktext>Natural Fuels</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Actual_Time_En_Route">
		<glossterm>Actual Time En Route</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Term used in flight planning/following to document actual time
			spent flying between points.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ATE</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Actual_Time_of_Arrival">
		<glossterm>Actual Time of Arrival</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Term used in flight planning/following to document time of
			arrival at a point.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ATA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Actual_Time_of_Departure">
		<glossterm>Actual Time of Departure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Term used in flight planning/following to document time of
			departure from a point.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ATD</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Adapter">
		<glossterm>Adapter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A device for connecting hoses of the same size with
			non-matching hose threads, or connecting a threaded coupling to a
			quick-connect coupling.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Coupling">
				<linktext>Coupling</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Adiabatic_Process">
		<glossterm>Adiabatic Process</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Thermodynamic change of state in which no heat is added or
			subtracted from a system; compression always results in warming,
			expansion in cooling.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Adjective_Rating">
		<glossterm>Adjective Rating</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A public information description of the relative severity of
			the current fire danger situation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Administrative_Payment_Team">
		<glossterm>Administrative Payment Team</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A team that supports incident agencies by processing payments
			for resources. Resources may include emergency equipment, casuals,
			local vendors for supplies, etc.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>APT</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Admission">
		<glossterm>Admission</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Oral or written statement tending to link its maker to
			involvement in a particular crime.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Advanced_Life_Support">
		<glossterm>Advanced Life Support</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Advanced life support skills performed by an EMS practitioner
			or service, e.g. intravenous fluids and drug
			administration.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ALS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Advancing_Fire">
		<glossterm>Advancing Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That portion of the fire with rapid fire spread with higher
			intensity which is normally burning with the wind and/or up slope.
			Also called: forward fire, or a run.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Head_Fire" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Head Fire</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Advancing_Front_Combustion_Stage">
		<glossterm>Advancing Front Combustion Stage</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The period of combustion when a fire is spreading, usually
			accompanied by flaming combustion that releases heat to sustain the
			convection column.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Advancing_a_Line">
		<glossterm>Advancing a Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Moving a hose lay toward a specified area from the point where
			the hose-carrying apparatus has stopped.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Advection">
		<glossterm>Advection</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The transfer of atmospheric properties by the horizontal
			movement of air, usually in reference to the transfer of warmer or
			cooler air, but may also refer to moisture.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Adze_Hoe">
		<glossterm>Adze Hoe</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire-trenching or digging tool having a sharp, tempered
			blade, which is useful for heavy grubbing, trenching, and light
			cutting.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aerial_Detection">
		<glossterm>Aerial Detection</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A system for, or the act of discovering, locating, and
			reporting fires from aircraft.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aerial_Fuels">
		<glossterm>Aerial Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Standing and supported live and dead combustibles not in
			direct contact with the ground and consisting mainly of foliage,
			twigs, branches, stems, cones, bark, and vines.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Draped_Fuels">
				<linktext>Draped Fuels</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aerial_Ignition">
		<glossterm>Aerial Ignition</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Ignition of fuels by dropping incendiary devices or materials
			from aircraft.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aerial_Ignition_Device">
		<glossterm>Aerial Ignition Device</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Inclusive term applied to equipment designed to ignite
			wildland fuels from an aircraft.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>AID</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Delayed_Aerial_Ignition_Devices">
				<linktext>Delayed Aerial Ignition Devices</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Helitorch">
				<linktext>Helitorch</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Ping-Pong_Ball_System">
				<linktext>Ping-Pong Ball System</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Plastic_Sphere_Dispenser">
				<linktext>Plastic Sphere Dispenser</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aerial_Observer">
		<glossterm>Aerial Observer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A person specifically assigned to discover, locate, and report
			wildland fires from an aircraft and to observe and describe
			conditions at the fire scene.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aerial_Photo_Interpreter">
		<glossterm>Aerial Photo Interpreter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A person skilled in identification and measurements of natural
			and cultural features on aerial photographs.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aerial_Reconnaissance">
		<glossterm>Aerial Reconnaissance</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Use of aircraft for detecting and observing fire behavior,
			values-at-risk, suppression activity, and other critical factors to
			facilitate command decisions on strategy and tactics needed for fire
			suppression.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aerial_Torch">
		<glossterm>Aerial Torch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An ignition device suspended under a helicopter, capable of
			dispensing ignited fuel to the ground for assistance in burning out
			or backfiring.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Affidavit">
		<glossterm>Affidavit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A statement of declaration in writing and affirmed before an
			official with authority to administer an oath; a statement of
			declaration alleging fact to support the issuance of a search or
			arrest warrant.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="After_Action_Review">
		<glossterm>After Action Review</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A professional discussion of an event, focused on performance
			standards, that enables Agency Administrators and firefighters to
			discover for themselves what happened, why it happened, and how to
			sustain strengths and improve on weaknesses. An After Action Review
			is a tool incident command personnel and units can use to get
			maximum benefit from every incident. It provides a daily review of
			the day’s actions: - Identify and discuss effective and
			non-effective performance. Candid insights into specific
			firefighter, leader, and unit strengths and weaknesses from various
			perspectives. - Feedback and insight critical to actions that were
			not standard operating procedures, or those that presented safety
			problems. - Lessons learned and how to apply them in the
			future.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>AAR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Agency">
		<glossterm>Agency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An agency is a division of government with a specific
			function, or a non-governmental organization (e.g., private
			contractor, business, etc.) that offers a particular kind of
			assistance. In ICS, agencies are defined as jurisdictional (having
			statutory responsibility for incident mitigation), or assisting
			and/or cooperating (providing resources and/or
			assistance).</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Assisting_Agency">
				<linktext>Assisting Agency</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Cooperating_Agency">
				<linktext>Cooperating Agency</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Supporting_Agency">
				<linktext>Supporting Agency</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Agency_Area_Coordination_Center">
		<glossterm>Agency/Area Coordination Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A facility which serves as a central point for one or more
			agencies to use in processing information and resource requests. It
			may also serve as a dispatch center for one of the
			agencies.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Agency_Administrator">
		<glossterm>Agency Administrator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Managing officer of an agency, division thereof, or
			jurisdiction having statutory responsibility for incident mitigation
			and management. Examples: NPS Park Superintendent, BIA Agency
			Superintendent, USFS Forest Supervisor, BLM District Manager, FWS
			Refuge Manager, State Forest Officer, Fire Chief, Police
			Chief.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Line_Officer">
				<linktext>Line Officer</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Agency_Certification">
		<glossterm>Agency Certification</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The process whereby the employing agency or contractor
			documents that the individual is fully qualified to perform duties
			and responsibilities for a specified position.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Agency_Dispatch">
		<glossterm>Agency Dispatch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The agency or jurisdictional facility from which resources are
			allocated to incidents.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Agency_Dispatcher">
		<glossterm>Agency Dispatcher</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A person working within an agency organization who processes
			resources to and from incidents.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Dispatcher">
				<linktext>Dispatcher</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Agency_Representative">
		<glossterm>Agency Representative</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position serves as the point of contact for an
			assisting or cooperating agency which has been delegated authority
			to make decisions on matters affecting that agency's participation
			at the incident and reports to the Liaison Officer.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>AREP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Assisting_Agency">
				<linktext>Assisting Agency</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Cooperating_Agency">
				<linktext>Cooperating Agency</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Ambulance">
		<glossterm>Air Ambulance</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A rotary wing aircraft configured, staffed and equipped to
			respond, care for and transport a patient(s) and approved/licensed
			by a state to do so. An air ambulance is sometimes referred to as a
			medevac.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Attack">
		<glossterm>Air Attack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The deployment of fixed-wing or rotary aircraft on a wildland
			fire, to drop retardant or extinguishing agents, shuttle and deploy
			crews and supplies, or perform aerial reconnaissance of the overall
			fire situation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Attack_Base">
		<glossterm>Air Attack Base</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Permanent facility at which aircraft are stationed for use in
			air attack operations.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Reload_Base">
				<linktext>Reload Base</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Cargo">
		<glossterm>Air Cargo</glossterm>
		<glossdef>All items for transport and delivery by aircraft.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Contaminant">
		<glossterm>Air Contaminant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An airborne dust, fume, gas, mist, odor, smoke, vapor, soot,
			pollen, carbon, acid or particulate matter or any combination
			thereof.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Air_Pollution">
				<linktext>Air Pollution</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Guard">
		<glossterm>Air Guard</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A common VHF-FM frequency used by natural resource agency
			aircraft for emergency radio transmissions. Also called national air
			safety guard frequency.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Mass">
		<glossterm>Air Mass</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An extensive body of air having the same properties of
			temperature and moisture in a horizontal plane.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Operations_Branch_Director">
		<glossterm>Air Operations Branch Director</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for management of an
			incident's air operations and reports to the Operations Section
			Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>AOBD</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Pollution">
		<glossterm>Air Pollution</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The general term referring to the undesirable addition of
			substances (gases, liquids, or solid particles) to the atmosphere
			that are foreign to the natural atmosphere or are present in
			quantities exceeding natural concentrations.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Air_Contaminant">
				<linktext>Air Contaminant</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Pollution_Alert">
		<glossterm>Air Pollution Alert</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A statement issued by an Air Quality Regulatory Agency due to
			high measured concentrations of pollutants. The alert remains in
			effect until monitoring shows a decrease in pollutant levels. Should
			conditions worsen, air pollution warnings and emergencies may be
			issued. At each stage (alert, warning and emergency) additional
			emission restrictions are put into effect so as to not intensify the
			situation. Essentially, at the emergency level all industrial
			activities and auto usage stop.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Quality">
		<glossterm>Air Quality</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The composition of air with respect to quantities of pollution
			therein; used most frequently in connection with "standards" of
			maximum acceptable pollutant concentrations. Used instead of "air
			pollution" when referring to programs.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Quality_Model">
		<glossterm>Air Quality Model</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Mathematical or quantitative representation or simulation of
			air quality processes; e.g., emission models, receptor models, or
			air quality dispersion models.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Stagnation_Advisory">
		<glossterm>Air Stagnation Advisory</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A statement issued by a National Weather Service forecast
			office when atmospheric conditions are stable enough such that the
			potential exists for air pollutants to accumulate in a given area.
			The statement is initially issued when conditions are expected to
			last for at least 36 hours.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ASA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Support_Group_Supervisor">
		<glossterm>Air Support Group Supervisor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for overseeing logistical
			support and management of helibase and helispot operations and
			temporary fixed-wing base(s) and reports to the Air Operations
			Branch Director. This position also maintains liaison with air
			tanker and fixed-wing bases supporting incident
			operations.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ASGS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Tactical_Group_Supervisor">
		<glossterm>Air Tactical Group Supervisor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for directing and
			coordinating airborne aircraft operations and management of an
			incident's airspace and reports to the Air Operations Branch
			Director.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ATGS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Tanker">
		<glossterm>Air Tanker</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fixed-wing aircraft certified by FAA as being capable of
			transport and delivery of fire retardant solutions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Air_Tanker_Fixed-Wing_Coordinator">
		<glossterm>Air Tanker/Fixed-Wing Coordinator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for coordinating air tanker
			and fixed-wing operations over an incident and reports to the Air
			Tactical Group Supervisor.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ATCO</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aircraft_Accident">
		<glossterm>Aircraft Accident</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An unplanned event that does substantial damage or causes
			serious injuries when associated with the operation of applicable
			aircraft. Event occurs between the time engine(s) is (are) started
			or rotors turning for the purpose of commencing flight, until the
			aircraft comes to rest with engines and propellers or rotors
			stopped, the brakes set or wheel chocks in place, and all persons
			have disembarked.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aircraft_Base_Radio_Operator">
		<glossterm>Aircraft Base Radio Operator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for maintaining base
			communications with assigned helicopters, helibases, helispots, air
			operations personnel, and project aviation manager, and reports to
			the Helibase Manager.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ABRO</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aircraft_Data_Card">
		<glossterm>Aircraft Data Card</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Card or documentation required to be on board the aircraft
			which approves use and indicates specific types of use.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aircraft_Footprint">
		<glossterm>Aircraft Footprint</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That area on the surface of the earth, runway, or ramp that is
			covered by the tread of the aircraft tire while the aircraft is
			motionless. Also called wheel loading.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aircraft_Ground_Mishap">
		<glossterm>Aircraft Ground Mishap</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An aircraft mishap in which there is no intent to fly.
			However, the power plants and/or rotors are in operation and damage
			is incurred requiring replacement or repair of rotors, propellers,
			wheels, tires, wing tips, flaps, etc., or injury is incurred
			requiring first-aid or medical attention.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aircraft_Incident">
		<glossterm>Aircraft Incident</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An unplanned event that results in damage which is less than
			serious aircraft incident criteria, or injuries not requiring
			medical attention.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Serious_Aircraft_Incident">
				<linktext>Serious Aircraft Incident</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aircraft_Network">
		<glossterm>Aircraft Network</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Applies to radio frequencies primarily used for air
			operations.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>AirNet</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aircraft_Timekeeper">
		<glossterm>Aircraft Timekeeper</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for keeping time and other
			information concerning helicopters assigned to a helibase and
			reports to the Helibase Manager.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ATIM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Alidade">
		<glossterm>Alidade</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A sighting device used by lookouts to determine the horizontal
			bearing and sometimes the vertical angle of a fire from a
			lookout.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Osborne Firefinder</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Firefinder_Map">
				<linktext>Firefinder Map</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="All_Hazard_Incident">
		<glossterm>All Hazard Incident</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An incident, natural or human-caused, that requires an
			organized response by a public, private, and/or governmental entity
			to protect life, public health and safety, values to be protected,
			and to minimize any disruption of governmental, social, and economic
			services. One or more kinds of incident (fire, flood, mass casualty,
			search, rescue, evacuation, etc.) may occur simultaneously as part
			of an all hazard incident response.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Incident">
				<linktext>Incident</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Values_To_Be_Protected">
				<linktext>Values To Be Protected</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="All_Hazards_Meteorological_Response_System">
		<glossterm>All Hazards Meteorological Response System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A mobile weather data collection and forecasting system
			consisting of two-way satellite communications and a laptop
			computer. Used by incident meteorologists on an incident.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>AMRS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Incident_Meteorologist">
				<linktext>Incident Meteorologist</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Micro-Remote_Environmental_Monitoring_System">
				<linktext>Micro-Remote Environmental Monitoring
					System</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="All_Terrain_Vehicle">
		<glossterm>All Terrain Vehicle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any motorized vehicle designed for or capable of cross-country
			travel on or immediately over land, water, sand, snow, ice, marsh,
			swampland, or other terrain.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ATV</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Off-road_Vehicle" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Off-road Vehicle</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Alligatoring">
		<glossterm>Alligatoring</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Char patterns formed on paint or burned wood remains, usually
			in the shape of blisters.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Depth_of_Char_Indicators">
				<linktext>Depth of Char Indicators</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Allocated_Resources">
		<glossterm>Allocated Resources</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Resources dispatched to an incident, that have not yet checked
			in.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Active_Resources">
				<linktext>Active Resources</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Available_Resources">
				<linktext>Available Resources</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Allowable_Payload">
		<glossterm>Allowable Payload</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The amount of weight that is available for passengers and/or
			cargo. On the load calculation form it is the operating weight
			subtracted from the selected weight.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Operating_Weight">
				<linktext>Operating Weight</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Altimeter_Setting">
		<glossterm>Altimeter Setting</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The barometric pressure reading used to adjust a pressure
			altimeter for variations in existing atmospheric pressure or to the
			standard altimeter setting (29.92) inches.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ambient_Air">
		<glossterm>Ambient Air</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Air of the surrounding environment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ambulance">
		<glossterm>Ambulance</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A ground transport vehicle configured, equipped and staffed to
			respond, care for and transport a patient(s) and approved by a state
			to do.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Air_Ambulance">
				<linktext>Air Ambulance</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Anchor_Point">
		<glossterm>Anchor Point</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An advantageous location, usually a barrier to fire spread,
			from which to start constructing a fireline. The anchor point is
			used to minimize the chance of being flanked by the fire while the
			line is being constructed.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Anemometer">
		<glossterm>Anemometer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An instrument designed to measure wind speed.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Angle_of_Char_Indicators">
		<glossterm>Angle of Char Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Standing fuels that are burned at an angle that indicates the
			direction of fire spread. Also called vertical char.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Annual_Certification">
		<glossterm>Annual Certification</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Annual review by an employing agency of an individual's
			position qualifications and documentation certifying that the
			individual is fully qualified to perform duties and responsibilities
			for a specified position. Annual certification is based on
			established performance standards and agency specific
			requirements.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Annual_Operating_Plan">
		<glossterm>Annual Operating Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A procedural guide which describes fire meteorological
			services provided within the Geographic Area of responsibility,
			including the National Interagency Fire Center. The guide is based
			on the National Interagency Agreement and applicable Geographic Area
			Memorandum of Agreement.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>AOP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Annual_Plant">
		<glossterm>Annual Plant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A plant that lives for one growing season, starting from a
			seed each year.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Anticyclone">
		<glossterm>Anticyclone</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area of high atmospheric pressure with closed clockwise
			circulation.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Surface_High">
				<linktext>Surface High</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Apparatus">
		<glossterm>Apparatus</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A motor-driven vehicle, or group of vehicles, designed and
			constructed for the purpose of fighting fires. May be of different
			types such as engines, water tenders, ladder trucks, etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Appropriate_Management_Response">
		<glossterm>Appropriate Management Response</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any specific action suitable to meet Fire Management Unit
			(FMU) objectives. Typically, the AMR ranges across a spectrum of
			tactical options (from monitoring to intensive management actions).
			The AMR is developed by using Fire Management Unit strategies and
			objectives identified in the Fire Management Plan.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>AMR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire_Management_Objective">
				<linktext>Fire Management Objective</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Fire_Management_Plan">
				<linktext>Fire Management Plan</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Approved">
		<glossterm>Approved</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In fire service terminology, that which is inspected and
			listed by recognized fire-testing agencies. The term as used in
			National Fire Protection Association standards means approval by the
			authority having jurisdiction, such as the fire chief, insurance
			inspection department, or other agency that enforces standards or
			regulations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aramid">
		<glossterm>Aramid</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The generic name for a high-strength, flame-resistant,
			synthetic fabric used in the shirts and jeans of firefighters. Nomex
			®, a brand name for aramid fabric, is the term commonly used by
			firefighters.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Nomex">
				<linktext>Nomex ®</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Area_Command">
		<glossterm>Area Command</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An organization established to: 1) oversee the management of
			multiple incidents that are each being handled by an incident
			management team (IMT) organization; or 2) to oversee the management
			of a very large incident that has multiple IMTs assigned to it. Area
			Command has the responsibility to set overall strategy and
			priorities, allocate critical resources based on priorities, ensure
			that incidents are properly managed, and that objectives are met and
			strategies followed.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Area_Command_Aviation_Coordinator">
		<glossterm>Area Command Aviation Coordinator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for ensuring effective use of air
			resources and supplies among those incidents under Area Command
			management. Reports to the Area Commander.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ACAC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Area_Command">
				<linktext>Area Command</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Area_Commander">
		<glossterm>Area Commander</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for the overall direction of
			incident management teams assigned to the same incident or incidents
			in close proximity managed under Area Command. Position
			responsibilities include ensuring that conflicts are resolved,
			compatible incident objectives are established, and strategies are
			selected for the use of critical resources among assigned incident
			management teams.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ACDR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Area_Command">
				<linktext>Area Command</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Area_Ignition">
		<glossterm>Area Ignition</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Ignition of several individual fires throughout an area,
			either simultaneously or in rapid succession, and so spaced that
			they add to and influence the main body of the fire to produce a
			hot, fast-spreading fire condition. Also called simultaneous
			ignition.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Area_Source">
		<glossterm>Area Source</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A source category of air pollution that generally extends over
			a large area. Prescribed burning, field burning, home heating, and
			open burning are examples of area sources.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Area_of_Influence">
		<glossterm>Area of Influence</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Delineated area surrounding a base which can be reached first
			by the ground or air attack units assigned to the base. Also called
			zone of influence.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Armed">
		<glossterm>Armed</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A term used to indicate that the air tanker dropping mechanism
			is set to allow a programmed release of part or all of the load of
			fire retardant.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Arrest">
		<glossterm>Arrest</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The taking or keeping of a person in custody by legal
			authority, especially in response to a criminal charge.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Arson">
		<glossterm>Arson</glossterm>
		<glossdef>At common law, the malicious and willful burning of another’s
			dwelling, outhouse or parcel; by most modern statutes, the
			intentional and wrongful burning of someone else's, or one's own,
			property. Frequently requires proof of malicious or wrongful
			intent.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Arson_Fire">
		<glossterm>Arson Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire that is intentional and wrongfully set to burn one's
			own or someone else's property.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Arson_Task_Force">
		<glossterm>Arson Task Force</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Group of individuals convened to analyze, investigate and
			solve arson problems in a particular region.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Arsonist">
		<glossterm>Arsonist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>One who commits arson.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ash_Indicators">
		<glossterm>Ash Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>White ash deposited on the origin side of objects.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aspect">
		<glossterm>Aspect</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Cardinal direction toward which a slope faces.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Exposure">
				<linktext>Exposure</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Exposure1">
				<linktext>Exposure</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Exposure2">
				<linktext>Exposure</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Aspirate_Foam">
		<glossterm>Aspirate (Foam)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>To draw in gases (or other substances); nozzle aspirating
			systems draw air into the nozzle to mix with the foam
			solution.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Assessment">
		<glossterm>Assessment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire weather fire danger product based on a thorough
			evaluation of all pertinent sources of meteorological, fire danger
			and resource information.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Assessment1">
		<glossterm>Assessment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The evaluation and interpretation of measurements,
			intelligence, and other information to provide a basis for
			decision-making.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Assignments">
		<glossterm>Assignments</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Tasks given to resources to perform within a given operational
			period, based upon tactical objectives in the incident action
			plan.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Assistant">
		<glossterm>Assistant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Term used as a title for subordinates of the command staff
			positions. In some cases, assistants are also assigned to unit
			leader positions in the planning, logistics, and
			finance/administration sections. Qualifications, technical
			capability, and responsibility of assistants are normally less than
			those of the person holding the primary position.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Assistant_Area_Commander_Logistics">
		<glossterm>Assistant Area Commander, Logistics</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for providing facilities,
			services and materials at the Area Command level, and for ensuring
			effective use of critical resources and supplies among those
			incidents under Area Command management. Reports to the Area
			Commander.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ACLC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Area_Command">
				<linktext>Area Command</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Assistant_Area_Commander_Plans">
		<glossterm>Assistant Area Commander, Plans</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for collecting information from
			those incidents under Area Command management in order to assess,
			evaluate potential conflicts in establishing incident objectives,
			strategies, and prioritizing use of critical resources. Reports to
			the Area Commander.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ACPC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Area_Command">
				<linktext>Area Command</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Assistant_Disbursing_Officer">
		<glossterm>Assistant Disbursing Officer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person with authority to pay wildland fire suppression crews,
			transient labor, local residents, and vendors with US Treasury
			checks.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ADO</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Assisting_Agency">
		<glossterm>Assisting Agency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An agency directly contributing tactical or service resources
			to another agency.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Agency">
				<linktext>Agency</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Agency_Representative">
				<linktext>Agency Representative</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Cooperating_Agency">
				<linktext>Cooperating Agency</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Supporting_Agency">
				<linktext>Supporting Agency</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Assumption">
		<glossterm>Assumption</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Acceptance of information as true without proof or
			demonstration.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Atmometer">
		<glossterm>Atmometer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An instrument that provides an approximate measure of
			evapotranspiration by measuring the water loss from an artificial
			evaporating surface.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Atmospheric_Inversion">
		<glossterm>Atmospheric Inversion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Departure from the usual increase or decrease with altitude of
			the value of an atmospheric property (in fire management usage,
			nearly always refers to an increase in temperature with increasing
			height).</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Atmospheric_Stability">
				<linktext>Atmospheric Stability</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Inversion">
				<linktext>Inversion</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Stable_Layer_of_Air">
				<linktext>Stable Layer of Air</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Atmospheric_Inversion1">
		<glossterm>Atmospheric Inversion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The layer through which this departure occurs (also called
			inversion layer). The lowest altitude at which the departure is
			found is called the base of the inversion.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Atmospheric_Stability">
				<linktext>Atmospheric Stability</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Inversion">
				<linktext>Inversion</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Stable_Layer_of_Air">
				<linktext>Stable Layer of Air</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Atmospheric_Pressure">
		<glossterm>Atmospheric Pressure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The force exerted by the weight of the atmosphere, per unit
			area.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Barometric_Pressure">
				<linktext>Barometric Pressure</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Atmospheric_Stability">
		<glossterm>Atmospheric Stability</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The degree to which vertical motion in the atmosphere is
			enhanced or suppressed. Vertical motions and pollution dispersion
			are enhanced in an unstable atmosphere. Thunderstorms and active
			fire conditions are common in unstable atmospheric conditions.
			Stability suppresses vertical motion and limits pollution
			dispersion.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Atmospheric_Inversion">
				<linktext>Atmospheric Inversion</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Atmospheric_Inversion1">
				<linktext>Atmospheric Inversion</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Inversion">
				<linktext>Inversion</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Stable_Layer_of_Air">
				<linktext>Stable Layer of Air</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Attack_Line">
		<glossterm>Attack Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A line of hose, preconnected to the pump of a fire apparatus
			and ready for immediate use in attacking a fire. Contrasted to
			supply lines connecting a water supply with a pump or to feeder
			lines extended from a pump to various points around the perimeter of
			a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Attack_Time">
		<glossterm>Attack Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The starting date, hour, and minute of the first suppression
			work on a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Attack_Unit">
		<glossterm>Attack Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Single vehicle or aircraft and its associated personnel and
			material provided for the purpose of responding to and abating a
			fire or other emergency.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Attack_Unit_Response">
		<glossterm>Attack Unit Response</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The response of one attack unit to a fire or other emergency
			with no regard for the number of return trips to that same fire or
			emergency.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Attack_a_Fire">
		<glossterm>Attack a Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Limit the spread of fire by any appropriate means.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Attainment_Area">
		<glossterm>Attainment Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area considered to have air quality as good as, or better
			than, the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) as defined
			in the Clean Air Act. An area may be in attainment for one or more
			pollutants but be in nonattainment for one or more other
			pollutants.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Automatic_Direction_Finder">
		<glossterm>Automatic Direction Finder</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An aircraft radio navigational receiver operating in the low
			frequency bands.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ADF</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Automatic_Weather_Station">
		<glossterm>Automatic Weather Station</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A non-GOES telemetered weather station that provides hourly
			observations to a local database.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>AWS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Manual_Weather_Station">
				<linktext>Manual Weather Station</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Automatically_Regulated">
		<glossterm>Automatically Regulated</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A proportioning method or device that readily adjusts to
			changes in water flow and or pressure to maintain a desired mix
			ratio.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Autorotation">
		<glossterm>Autorotation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A helicopter flight condition in which the lifting rotor is
			driven entirely by action of air when the helicopter is in
			motion.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Auxiliary_Pump">
		<glossterm>Auxiliary Pump</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A secondary pump on an engine in addition to the main pump.
			Usually of small capacity.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Available_Fuel">
		<glossterm>Available Fuel</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That portion of the total fuel that would actually burn under
			various environmental conditions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Available_Fuel1">
		<glossterm>Available Fuel</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fuel available for use in a motor vehicle, aircraft, or other
			motorized equipment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Available_Resources">
		<glossterm>Available Resources</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Resources assigned to an incident and available for
			assignment.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Active_Resources">
				<linktext>Active Resources</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Allocated_Resources">
				<linktext>Allocated Resources</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Average_Annual_Precipitation">
		<glossterm>Average Annual Precipitation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The expected amount of annual rainfall. Average annual
			precipitation is an important component to determining the
			Keech-Bryam Drought Index (KBDI).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Average_Relative_Humidity">
		<glossterm>Average Relative Humidity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). The
			mathematical average of the maximum and minimum relative humidities
			measured at a fire weather station from one basic observation time
			to the next.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Average_Temperature">
		<glossterm>Average Temperature</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The mathematical average of the maximum and minimum dry-bulb
			temperatures measured at a fire weather station from one basic
			observation time to the next.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Average_Worst_Day">
		<glossterm>Average Worst Day</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Average_Worst_Year">
		<glossterm>Average Worst Year</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Avoidance">
		<glossterm>Avoidance</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A smoke emission control strategy that considers
			meteorological conditions when scheduling prescribed fires in order
			to avoid incursions into smoke sensitive areas.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Awareness">
		<glossterm>Awareness</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The continual process of collecting, analyzing, and
			disseminating intelligence, information, and knowledge to allow
			organizations and individuals to anticipate requirements and to
			react effectively and safely.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Azimuth">
		<glossterm>Azimuth</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Horizontal angle or bearing of a point measured clockwise from
			true (astronomic) north.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Azimuth_Circle">
		<glossterm>Azimuth Circle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A circle graduated in 360 degrees in a clockwise direction
			from true (astronomic) north.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="BEHAVE">
		<glossterm>BEHAVE</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A system of interactive computer programs for modeling fuel
			and fire behavior, comprised of two systems: BURN and
			FUEL.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Back_Azimuth">
		<glossterm>Back Azimuth</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Angle or bearing 180 degrees opposite of azimuth.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Backburn">
		<glossterm>Backburn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Used in some localities to specify fire set to spread against
			the wind in prescribed burning.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Backdraft">
		<glossterm>Backdraft</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Instantaneous explosion or rapid burning of superheated gases
			that occurs when oxygen is introduced into an oxygen-depleted
			confined space. It may occur because of inadequate or improper
			ventilation procedures.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Backfire">
		<glossterm>Backfire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire set along the inner edge of a fireline to consume the
			fuel in the path of a wildfire or change the direction of force of
			the fire's convection column.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Burn_Out">
				<linktext>Burn Out</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Backfire_Torch">
		<glossterm>Backfire Torch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A flame generating device (e.g., a fount containing diesel oil
			or kerosene and a wick, or a backpack pump serving a
			flame-jet).</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Burning Torch</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Flame_Thrower">
				<linktext>Flame Thrower</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Drip_Torch">
				<linktext>Drip Torch</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Flame_Thrower">
				<linktext>Flame Thrower</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Backfiring">
		<glossterm>Backfiring</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A tactic associated with indirect attack, intentionally
			setting fire to fuels inside the control line to slow, knock down,
			or contain a rapidly spreading fire. Backfiring provides a wide
			defense perimeter and may be further employed to change the force of
			the convection column. Backfiring makes possible a strategy of
			locating control lines at places where the fire can be fought on the
			firefighter's terms. Except for rare circumstance meeting specified
			criteria, backfiring is executed on a command decision made through
			line channels of authority.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Background_Level">
		<glossterm>Background Level</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In air pollution control, the concentration of air pollutants
			in a definite area during a fixed period of time prior to the
			starting up, or the stoppage, of a source of emission under control.
			In toxic substances monitoring, the average presence in the
			environment, originally referring to naturally-occurring
			phenomena.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Backing_Fire">
		<glossterm>Backing Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire spreading, or ignited to spread, into (against) the wind
			or downslope. A fire spreading on level ground in the absence of
			wind is a backing fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Backing_Fire1">
		<glossterm>Backing Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That portion of the fire with slower rates of fire spread and
			lower intensity normally moving into the wind and/or down slope.
			Also called: heel fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Backing_Wind">
		<glossterm>Backing Wind</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Wind that changes direction in a counter clockwise
			motion.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Backpack_Pump">
		<glossterm>Backpack Pump</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A portable sprayer with hand-pump, fed from a liquid filled
			container fitted with straps, used mainly in fire and pest
			control.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Bladder_Bag">
				<linktext>Bladder Bag</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Baffle">
		<glossterm>Baffle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A partitioned wall placed in vehicular or aircraft water tanks
			to reduce shifting of the water load when starting, stopping or
			turning.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ball_Valve">
		<glossterm>Ball Valve</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A valve in which fluid flow is controlled by a ball with a
			hole drilled through it. In one position, fluid flows through the
			hole. When the valve is turned 90 degrees (1/4 turn) the hole is
			perpendicular to the flow and the ball stops the flow. Intermediate
			valve positions can be used to adjust the flow.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Bambi_Bucket">
		<glossterm>Bambi Bucket ®</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A collapsible bucket slung below a helicopter. Used to dip
			water from a variety of sources for fire suppression.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Banking_Snags">
		<glossterm>Banking Snags</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The act of throwing mineral soil about the base of an
			unlighted snag to prevent its being ignited by a surface
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Barometer">
		<glossterm>Barometer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An instrument for measuring the pressure of the atmosphere.
			The two principal types are the mercurial and the
			aneroid.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Barometric_Pressure">
		<glossterm>Barometric Pressure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Atmospheric pressure corrected for elevation.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Atmospheric_Pressure">
				<linktext>Atmospheric Pressure</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Barrier">
		<glossterm>Barrier</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any obstruction to the spread of fire. Typically an area or
			strip devoid of combustible fuel.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Base">
		<glossterm>Base</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The location at which primary logistics functions for an
			incident are coordinated and administered. There is only one base
			per incident. (Incident name or other designator will be added to
			the term "base.") The incident command post may be collocated with
			the base.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Camp">
				<linktext>Camp</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Base1">
		<glossterm>Base</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The location of initial attack forces.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Camp">
				<linktext>Camp</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Base_Area">
		<glossterm>Base Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). An
			area representative of the major fire problems on a protection unit.
			Base fuel model and slope class are chosen from the base
			area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Base_Fuel_Model">
		<glossterm>Base Fuel Model</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). A
			representation of the vegetative cover and fuel in a base area. Used
			in the calculation of fire danger rating.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Base_Manager">
		<glossterm>Base Manager</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for ensuring that appropriate
			sanitation, security, and facilities management services are
			provided at the Incident Base and reports to the Facilities Unit
			Leader.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>BCMG</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Camp_Manager">
				<linktext>Camp Manager</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Facilities_Unit">
				<linktext>Facilities Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Base_Observation_Time">
		<glossterm>Base Observation Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). The
			time established to take the fire danger observations. It should be
			at the time of day when the fire danger is normally the highest. The
			usually agreed upon time is 1:00 pm standard time. This allows time
			to transmit observations and prepare forecasts.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Base_Station">
		<glossterm>Base Station</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fixed central radio dispatching station controlling
			movements of one or more mobile units.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Baseline">
		<glossterm>Baseline</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In prescribed burning, the initial line of fire, usually set
			as a backing fire along a barrier or control line, which serves to
			contain subsequent burning operations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Basic_Life_Support">
		<glossterm>Basic Life Support</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Basic life support skills performed by an EMS practitioner or
			service, e.g. splinting, bandaging, oxygen administration, use of
			the AED.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>BLS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Batch_Mix">
		<glossterm>Batch Mix</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Manually adding and mixing a concentrated chemical, such as
			liquid foam, or powdered or liquid retardant with water, or gelling
			agents with fuel, into solution in a tank or container.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Bearing">
		<glossterm>Bearing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The horizontal direction to or from any point, usually
			measured clockwise from true north, or some other reference point
			through 360 degrees.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Beaufort_Wind_Scale">
		<glossterm>Beaufort Wind Scale</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A system of estimating and reporting wind speeds. In its
			present form for international meteorological use it equates (a)
			Beaufort force (or Beaufort number), (b) wind speed, (c) descriptive
			term, and (d) visible effects upon land objects or sea
			surf.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Behavior">
		<glossterm>Behavior</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An observable activity or action demonstrated by an individual
			in a particular context.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Competency">
				<linktext>Competency</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Belt_Weather_Kit">
		<glossterm>Belt Weather Kit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Belt-mounted case with pockets fitted for anemometer, compass,
			sling psychrometer, slide rule, water bottle, pencils, and book of
			weather report forms. Used to take weather observations to provide
			on-site conditions to the fire weather forecaster or fire behavior
			analyst. Observations include air temperature, wind speed and
			direction, and relative humidity.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Berm">
		<glossterm>Berm</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A ridge of soil and debris along the outside edge of a
			fireline, resulting from line construction.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Throw_Out">
				<linktext>Throw Out</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Best_Available_Control_Measures">
		<glossterm>Best Available Control Measures</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An emission limitation action based on the maximum degree of
			emission reduction (considering energy, environmental, and economic
			impacts) achievable through application of production processes and
			available methods, systems, and techniques.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>BACM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Reasonably_Available_Control_Measures">
				<linktext>Reasonably Available Control Measures</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Blackline">
		<glossterm>Blackline</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Preburning of fuels adjacent to a control line before igniting
			a prescribed burn. Blacklining is usually done in heavy fuels
			adjacent to a control line during periods of low fire danger to
			reduce heat on holding crews and lessen chances for spotting across
			control line. In fire suppression, a blackline denotes a condition
			where there is no unburned material between the fireline and the
			fire edge.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Bladder_Bag">
		<glossterm>Bladder Bag</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A collapsible backpack portable sprayer made of neoprene or
			high-strength nylon fabric fitted with a pump.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Backpack_Pump">
				<linktext>Backpack Pump</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Blind_Area">
		<glossterm>Blind Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area in which neither the ground nor its vegetation can be
			seen from a given observation point.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Block_Plan">
		<glossterm>Block Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A detailed prescription for treating a specified burning block
			with fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Blow_Down">
		<glossterm>Blow Down</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area of previously standing timber which has been blown
			over by strong winds or storms.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Blowup">
		<glossterm>Blowup</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Sudden increase in fireline intensity or rate of spread of a
			fire sufficient to preclude direct control or to upset existing
			suppression plans. Often accompanied by violent convection and may
			have other characteristics of a fire storm.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Extreme_Fire_Behavior">
				<linktext>Extreme Fire Behavior</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Fire_Storm">
				<linktext>Fire Storm</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Flare-up">
				<linktext>Flare-up</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Board_of_Review">
		<glossterm>Board of Review</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A board or committee selected to review results of fire
			suppression action on a given unit or the specific action taken on a
			given fire. The board reviews the results in order to identify
			reasons for both good and poor action and to recommend or prescribe
			ways and means of doing an effective and efficient job. Reviews the
			results of a safety/accident investigation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Boiling_Liquid_Expanding_Vapor_Explosion">
		<glossterm>Boiling Liquid Expanding Vapor Explosion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The failure of a closed container as a result of
			overpressurization caused by an external heat source.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>BLEVE</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Boiling_Liquid_Expanding_Vapor_Explosion1">
		<glossterm>Boiling Liquid Expanding Vapor Explosion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A major failure of a closed liquid container into two or more
			pieces when the temperature of the liquid is well above its boiling
			point at normal atmospheric pressure.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>BLEVE</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Bole">
		<glossterm>Bole</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The trunk of a tree.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Bone_Yard">
		<glossterm>Bone Yard</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A mop up term. To "bone yard" a fire means to systematically
			work the entire area, scraping embers off remaining fuel, feeling
			for heat with the hands, and piling unburned materials in areas
			cleared to mineral soil.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Bone_Yard1">
		<glossterm>Bone Yard</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area cleared to mineral soil for piling unburned
			fuels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Booster_Hose">
		<glossterm>Booster Hose</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The most common type of hose attached and stored on wildland
			engine booster reels. The hose is made of neoprene and does not
			appreciably collapse when stored empty.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Booster_Pump">
		<glossterm>Booster Pump</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An intermediary pump for supplying additional lift in pumping
			water uphill past the capacity of the first pump.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Booster_Reel">
		<glossterm>Booster Reel</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A reel for the booster hose mounted on a fire engine, often
			supplied by the auxiliary pump. This reel usually carries a 1-inch
			(25 mm) or 3/4 inch (19 mm) hose and frequently contains an electric
			rewind mechanism.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Hose_Reel">
				<linktext>Hose Reel</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Boundary_Conditions">
		<glossterm>Boundary Conditions</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The temperature and relative humidity of the boundary
			layer.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Boundary_Layer">
		<glossterm>Boundary Layer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The air in immediate contact with a fuel particle.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Boundary_Layer1">
		<glossterm>Boundary Layer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That part of the lower atmosphere that is directly influenced
			by the presence of the earth's surface and responds to surface
			forcings with a time scale of about an hour or less.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Boundary_Value">
		<glossterm>Boundary Value</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The equilibrium moisture content (EMC) commensurate with the
			boundary conditions and precipitation events of the preceding 24
			hours.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Bowles_Bag">
		<glossterm>Bowles Bag</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A neoprene tank designed for attachment to the landing skid
			frame of a helicopter. It has a capacity of 80 to 100 gallons (303
			to 378 liters) of water or retardant.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Box_Canyon">
		<glossterm>Box Canyon</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A steep-sided, dead end canyon.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Branch">
		<glossterm>Branch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The organizational level having functional or geographical
			responsibility for major parts of incident operations. The branch
			level is organizationally between section and division/group in the
			operations section, and between section and unit in the logistics
			section. Branches are identified by roman numerals or by functional
			name (e.g. service, support).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Break_Coupling">
		<glossterm>Break Coupling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>To detach two pieces of hose by backing the swivel thread off
			the nipple thread.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Break_Left_or_Right">
		<glossterm>Break Left or Right</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Means "turn" left or right. Applies to aircraft in flight,
			usually on the drop run, and when given as a command to the pilot,
			implies expectation of prompt compliance.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Break_a_Line">
		<glossterm>Break a Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>To insert a gate valve or some other device into a hose
			line.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="British_Thermal_Unit">
		<glossterm>British Thermal Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Amount of heat required to raise 1 pound of water 1 degree
			Fahrenheit (from 59.50 to 60.50 F), measured at standard atmospheric
			pressure.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>Btu</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Broadcast_Burning">
		<glossterm>Broadcast Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Prescribed burning activity where fire is applied generally to
			most or all of an area within well defined boundaries for reduction
			of fuel hazard, as a resource management treatment, or
			both.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Brown_and_Burn">
		<glossterm>Brown and Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Application of herbicide to desiccate living vegetation prior
			to burning.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Brownspot_Control">
		<glossterm>Brownspot Control</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Prescribed fire to control fungal infection (brown spot
			disease) of longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) in the "grass" (small
			seedling) stage.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Brush">
		<glossterm>Brush</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A collective term that refers to stands of vegetation
			dominated by shrubby, woody plants, or low growing trees, usually of
			a type undesirable for livestock or timber management.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Brush_Blade">
		<glossterm>Brush Blade</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Blade attachment with long teeth specially suited to ripping
			and piling brush with minimum inclusion of soil. Also called brush
			rake or root rake.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Brush_Fire">
		<glossterm>Brush Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire burning in vegetation that is predominantly shrubs,
			brush, and scrub growth.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Brush_Hook">
		<glossterm>Brush Hook</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A heavy cutting tool designed primarily to cut brush at the
			base of the stem. Used in much the same way as an axe and having a
			wide blade, generally curved to protect the blade from being dulled
			by rocks.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Brush_Management">
		<glossterm>Brush Management</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Manipulation of stands of brush by manual, mechanical,
			chemical, or biological means or by prescribed burning for the
			purpose of achieving land management objectives.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Brush_Patrol_Unit">
		<glossterm>Brush Patrol Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any light, mobile vehicular unit with limited pumping and
			water capacity for off-road operations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Bubble">
		<glossterm>Bubble</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The building block of foam; bubble characteristics of water
			content and durability influence foam performance.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Bucket_Drops">
		<glossterm>Bucket Drops</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The dropping of fire retardants or suppressants from specially
			designed buckets slung below a helicopter.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Bucking">
		<glossterm>Bucking</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Sawing through the bole of a tree after it has been
			felled.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Build-up">
		<glossterm>Build-up</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The cumulative effects of long-term drying on current fire
			danger.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Build-up1">
		<glossterm>Build-up</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The increase in strength of a fire management
			organization.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Build-up2">
		<glossterm>Build-up</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The accelerated spreading of a fire with time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Build-up3">
		<glossterm>Build-up</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Towering cumulus clouds which may lead to thunderstorms later
			in the day.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Buildup_Index">
		<glossterm>Buildup Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A relative measure of the cumulative effect of daily drying
			factors and precipitation on fuels with a ten-day
			timelag.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>BUI</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Bulk_Density">
		<glossterm>Bulk Density</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Weight per unit volume. For fuels, this is usually expressed
			as pounds per cubic foot; for soils, grams per cubic
			centimeter.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Compactness">
				<linktext>Compactness</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burn">
		<glossterm>Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area burned over by wildland fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burn1">
		<glossterm>Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A reference to a working fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burn2">
		<glossterm>Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An injury to flesh caused by a cauterizing agent, heat from a
			fire, or a heated object a) First Degree Burn: A burn which causes
			only pain, redness, and swelling. b) Second Degree Burn: A burn in
			which the skin is blistered. c) Third Degree Burn: A flesh burn in
			which charring occurs.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burn3">
		<glossterm>Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>To be on fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burn4">
		<glossterm>Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>To consume fuel during rapid combustion.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burn5">
		<glossterm>Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire in progress or under investigation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burn_Block">
		<glossterm>Burn Block</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A discrete area within a larger prescribed or fire use
			project.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burn_Boss">
		<glossterm>Burn Boss</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible for supervising a prescribed fire from
			ignition through mopup.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burn_Out">
		<glossterm>Burn Out</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Setting fire inside a control line to consume fuel between the
			edge of the fire and the control line.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Backfire">
				<linktext>Backfire</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burn_Out_Time">
		<glossterm>Burn Out Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The duration of flaming and smoldering combustion phases at a
			specified point within a burn or for the whole burn, expressed in
			convenient units of time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burn_Patterns">
		<glossterm>Burn Patterns</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The characteristic configuration of char left by a fire. In
			wildland fires burn patterns are influenced by topography, wind
			direction, length of exposure, and type of fuel. Definitions are
			scale-dependent: (1) They can be used to trace a fire's origin; (2)
			They are influenced by severity and intensity within a stand; (3)
			They describe the landscape mosaic.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burn_Patterns1">
		<glossterm>Burn Patterns</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Apparent and obvious design of burned material and the burning
			path from the area of origin.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burn_Severity">
		<glossterm>Burn Severity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A qualitative assessment of the heat pulse directed toward the
			ground during a fire. Burn severity relates to soil heating, large
			fuel and duff consumption, consumption of the litter and organic
			layer beneath trees and isolated shrubs, and mortality of buried
			plant parts.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burning">
		<glossterm>Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Decomposition of material by the application of heat and
			oxidation. Also applied to propellants and other pyrotechnic
			mixtures, though the proper term there is "reacting". Also often an
			element of the crime of arson.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burning_Ban">
		<glossterm>Burning Ban</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A declared ban on open air burning within a specified area,
			usually due to sustained high fire danger.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burning_Conditions">
		<glossterm>Burning Conditions</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The state of the combined factors of the environment that
			affect fire behavior in a specified fuel type.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burning_Index">
		<glossterm>Burning Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An estimate of the potential difficulty of fire containment as
			it relates to the flamelength at the head of the fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burning_Index1">
		<glossterm>Burning Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A relative number related to the contribution that fire
			behavior makes to the amount or effort needed to contain a fire in a
			specified fuel type. Doubling the burning index indicates that twice
			the effort will be required to contain a fire in that fuel type as
			was previously required, providing all other parameters are held
			constant.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burning_Index_Meter">
		<glossterm>Burning Index Meter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A device used to determine the burning index for different
			combinations of burning index factors.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burning_Out">
		<glossterm>Burning Out</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Setting fire inside a control line to consume fuel located
			between the edge of the fire and the control line.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burning_Period">
		<glossterm>Burning Period</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That part of each 24-hour period when fires spread most
			rapidly; typically from 10:00 AM to sundown.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burning_Priority_Rating">
		<glossterm>Burning Priority Rating</glossterm>
		<glossdef>System of rating slash to indicate the treatment objective,
			whether or not burning is required to meet that objective, the fuel
			treatment necessary to achieve successful burning, and the time of
			year burning should occur.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burning_Rate">
		<glossterm>Burning Rate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Rate at which a propellant and other combustibles
			burn.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burning_Rotation">
		<glossterm>Burning Rotation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The planned number of years between prescribed fires on a
			specified area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Burnover">
		<glossterm>Burnover</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An event in which a fire moves through a location or overtakes
			personnel or equipment where there is no opportunity to utilize
			escape routes and safety zones, often resulting in personal injury
			or equipment damage.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Buying_Team">
		<glossterm>Buying Team</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A team that supports incident procurement through the local
			administrative staff and is authorized to procure a wide range of
			services, supplies, and land and equipmental rentals. In addition,
			the Buying Team Leader has the responsibility of coordinating
			property accountability with the supply unit leader.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Buys_Ballots_Law">
		<glossterm>Buys Ballot's Law</glossterm>
		<glossdef>If a person stands with his back to the general wind, the high
			atmospheric pressure is found to his right in the Northern
			Hemisphere. The high pressure on the right moves clockwise and
			outward from the cell. The low pressure on the left moves
			counterclockwise and towards the center of the cell. This Law does
			not work in the presence of locally produced convective
			winds.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cache">
		<glossterm>Cache</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A pre-determined complement of tools, equipment and/or
			supplies stored in a designated location, available for incident
			use.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Calculation_of_Probabilities">
		<glossterm>Calculation of Probabilities</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Evaluation of all factors pertinent to probable future
			behavior of a going fire and of the potential ability of available
			forces to perform fire suppression operations on a specified time
			schedule.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Calibrated_Airspeed">
		<glossterm>Calibrated Airspeed</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Indicated airspeed of an aircraft, corrected for position and
			instrument error. Equal to true airspeed in standard atmosphere at
			sea level.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Camp">
		<glossterm>Camp</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A geographical site(s), within the general incident area,
			separate from the incident base, equipped and staffed to provide
			sleeping, food, water, and sanitary services to incident
			personnel.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Base">
				<linktext>Base</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Base1">
				<linktext>Base</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Camp_Manager">
		<glossterm>Camp Manager</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for ensuring that services,
			supplies, and non-technical coordination are provided within a camp
			and reports to the Facilities Unit Leader. There may be one or more
			camps per incident, each with a Camp Manager.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>BCMG</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Base_Manager">
				<linktext>Base Manager</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Facilities_Unit">
				<linktext>Facilities Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Canopy">
		<glossterm>Canopy</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The stratum containing the crowns of the tallest vegetation
			present (living or dead), usually above 20 feet.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Carbon_Dioxide">
		<glossterm>Carbon Dioxide</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A colorless, odorless, nonpoisonous gas, which results from
			fuel combustion and is normally a part of the ambient
			air.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>CO2</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Carbon_Monoxide">
		<glossterm>Carbon Monoxide</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A colorless, odorless, poisonous gas produced by incomplete
			fuel combustion.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>CO</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Carcinogen">
		<glossterm>Carcinogen</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any substance that can cause or contribute to the production
			of cancer.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cardinal_Altitudes">
		<glossterm>Cardinal Altitudes</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Odd or "even" thousand-foot (305 m) altitudes or flight
			levels. E.g., 5,000, 6,000, 7,000; FL 250, FL 260, and FL
			270.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cardinal_Directions">
		<glossterm>Cardinal Directions</glossterm>
		<glossdef>North, south, east, west; used for giving directions and
			information from the ground or air in describing the fire (e.g., the
			west flank or east flank, not right flank or left flank).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cargo_Chute">
		<glossterm>Cargo Chute</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A parachute designed and rigged for dropping equipment and
			supplies from an aircraft.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cargo_Compartment">
		<glossterm>Cargo Compartment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An internal area of an aircraft specifically designed to carry
			baggage or cargo.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cargo_Drop">
		<glossterm>Cargo Drop</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Dropping of equipment or supplies, with or without a
			parachute, from an aircraft in flight.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cargo_Hook">
		<glossterm>Cargo Hook</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Mechanically and electrically operated hook attached to the
			bottom of a helicopter to which a sling load is attached.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cargo_Net">
		<glossterm>Cargo Net</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Net attached to the cargo hook of a helicopter, used to carry
			cargo. Also called cargo sling.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cargo_Rack">
		<glossterm>Cargo Rack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Externally mounted rack for transporting supplies or cargo
			aboard a helicopter.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Carousel_Hook">
		<glossterm>Carousel Hook</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A remote hook attached to the end of a longline. It has four
			or more individual hooks which can be independently released,
			allowing the pilot to fly cargo loads to different locations without
			landing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Carried_Wet">
		<glossterm>Carried Wet</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Booster hose carried full of water during mild weather to
			speed discharge of water on fire without filling or priming from
			tank.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Carrier_Fuels">
		<glossterm>Carrier Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The fuels that support the flaming front of the moving
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Casual">
		<glossterm>Casual</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A person hired and compensated under the Pay Plan for
			Emergency Workers.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Administratively Determined</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>AD</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Emergency Worker</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Emergency_Firefighter">
				<linktext>Emergency Firefighter</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Category_Day">
		<glossterm>Category Day</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A numerical index related to the ability of the atmosphere to
			disperse smoke. Different agencies use different scales [e.g., in
			South Carolina, the current scale is based on ventilation factor and
			ranges from 1 (poor) to 5 (excellent)].</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Catface">
		<glossterm>Catface</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Defect on the surface of a tree resulting from a wound where
			healing has not re-established the normal cross-section.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ceiling">
		<glossterm>Ceiling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Height above the earth's surface of the lowest layer of clouds
			or obscuring phenomena aloft that is not classified as a thin layer
			or partial obscuration, that together with all lower clouds or
			obscuring phenomena covers more than half the sky as detected from
			the point of observation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ceiling1">
		<glossterm>Ceiling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Maximum height of a temporary flight restriction
			(TFR).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Celsius">
		<glossterm>Celsius</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A temperature scale with 0° as the freezing point of water and
			100° as the boiling point of water at sea level.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Center_Firing">
		<glossterm>Center Firing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Method of broadcast burning in which fire is ignited in the
			center of the area to create a strong draft; additional fires are
			then ignited progressively nearer the outer control lines (sometimes
			in one step) as indraft increases so as to draw the flames and smoke
			toward the center.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Centrifugal_Pump">
		<glossterm>Centrifugal Pump</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Pump which expels water by centrifugal force through the ports
			of a circular impeller rotating at high speed. With this type of
			pump, the discharge line may be shut off while the pump is running
			without damaging the pump or hose.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Certifying_Official">
		<glossterm>Certifying Official</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The agency official at the home unit who is responsible for
			authorizing and granting position certification per agency policy.
			The agency official is responsible for completing the agency
			certification block located on the inside front cover of a Position
			Task Book.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Agency_Certification">
				<linktext>Agency Certification</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Home_Unit">
				<linktext>Home Unit</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Position_Task_Book">
				<linktext>Position Task Book</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Chain">
		<glossterm>Chain</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Unit of measure in land survey, equal to 66 feet (20 M) (80
			chains equal 1 mile). Commonly used to report fire perimeters and
			other fireline distances, this unit is popular in fire management
			because of its convenience in calculating acreage (e.g., 10 square
			chains equal one acre).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Chain_Lightning">
		<glossterm>Chain Lightning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Lightning in a long zigzag or apparently broken
			line.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Chain_of_Command">
		<glossterm>Chain of Command</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A series of management positions in order of
			authority.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Char">
		<glossterm>Char</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Carbonaceous material formed by incomplete combustion of an
			organic material, most commonly wood; remains of burned
			materials.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Char1">
		<glossterm>Char</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In fire simulation, a darkened area within the fire perimeter;
			usually indicates fire has already passed through; usually created
			by an opaque material blocking out a selected portion of basic scene
			illumination.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Char_Height">
		<glossterm>Char Height</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The vertical distance above ground scorched or blackened on a
			tree bole.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Charged_Line">
		<glossterm>Charged Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Hose filled with water under pressure and ready to
			use.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Live_Line" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Live Line</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Live_Reel">
				<linktext>Live Reel</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Chase_Truck">
		<glossterm>Chase Truck</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Vehicle that carries crew gear, supplies, and operational
			equipment for initial/extended attack.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Check-in">
		<glossterm>Check-in</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The process whereby resources first report to an incident.
			Check-in locations include incident command post (ICP), base or
			camps, staging areas, helibases, or direct to a tactical
			assignment.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Reporting_Locations">
				<linktext>Reporting Locations</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Check_Line">
		<glossterm>Check Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A temporary fireline constructed at right angles to the
			control line and used to hold a backfire in check as a means of
			regulating the heat or intensity of the backfire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Check_Valve">
		<glossterm>Check Valve</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A valve that permits flow of liquid through a hose or pipe in
			one direction but prevents a return flow. Uses include the
			prevention of backflow on uphill hose lays, loss of prime with
			centrifugal pumps and chemical contamination in fire chemical mixing
			systems.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Chevron_Burn">
		<glossterm>Chevron Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Burning technique in which lines of fire are started
			simultaneously from the apex of a ridge point, and progress
			downhill, maintaining position along the contour; used in hilly
			areas to ignite ridge points or ridge ends.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Chief">
		<glossterm>Chief</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS title for individuals responsible for command of
			functional sections: Operations, Planning, Logistics, and
			Finance/Administration.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Chief_of_Party">
		<glossterm>Chief of Party</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The chief of party is responsible to the sending unit
			dispatcher until destination is reached. Chief of party is
			responsible for all traveling personnel assigned on the manifest
			list.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Circumstantial_Evidence">
		<glossterm>Circumstantial Evidence</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Testimony or information not based on actual personal
			knowledge or observation, but dependent on inference of other facts
			or experience. For example, testimony that defendant’s cigarette
			lighter was found in ashes of a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cirrus">
		<glossterm>Cirrus</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A form of high cloud, composed of ice crystals, which seldom
			obscures the sun.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Claims_Specialist">
		<glossterm>Claims Specialist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible for handling all claims, other than injury,
			against the incident.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>CLMS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Class_A_Foam">
		<glossterm>Class A Foam</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Foam intended for use on Class A or woody fuels; made from
			hydrocarbon-based surfactant, therefore lacking the strong filming
			properties of Class B foam, but possessing excellent wetting
			properties.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Class_B_Foam">
		<glossterm>Class B Foam</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Foam designed for use on Class B or flammable liquid fires;
			made from fluorocarbon-based surfactants, therefore capable of
			strong filming action, but incapable of efficient wetting of Class A
			fuels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Class_I_Areas_Air_Quality">
		<glossterm>Class I Areas (Air Quality)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Geographic areas designed by the Clean Air Act subject to the
			most stringent restrictions on allowable increment of air quality
			deterioration. Class I areas include Forest Service wildernesses and
			nation memorial parks over 5,000 acres, National Parks exceeding
			6,000 acres, international parks, as well as other designated
			lands.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Class_II_Areas_Air_Quality">
		<glossterm>Class II Areas (Air Quality)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>All areas of the country not designated Class I, including
			everything from non-Class I areas to urban areas. A greater amount
			of air pollution can be added to these areas than Class
			I.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Class_of_Fire">
		<glossterm>Class of Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>As to kind of fire for purpose of using a proper extinguisher:
			Class A - Fires involving ordinary combustible materials (such as
			wood, cloth, paper, rubber, and many plastics) requiring the heat
			absorbing (cooling) effects of water, water solutions, or the
			coating effects of certain dry chemicals, which retard combustion.
			Class B - Fires involving flammable or combustible liquids,
			flammable gases, greases, and similar materials where extinguishment
			is most readily secured by excluding air (oxygen), inhibiting the
			release of combustible vapors, or interrupting the combustion chain
			reaction. Class C - Fires involving live electrical equipment where
			safety to the operator requires the use of electrically
			nonconductive extinguishing agents. Class D - Fires involving
			certain combustible metals (such as magnesium, titanium, zirconium,
			sodium, potassium, etc.) requiring a heat absorbing extinguishing
			medium not reactive with burning metals.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Size_Class_of_Fire">
				<linktext>Size Class of Fire</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Clean_Air_Act">
		<glossterm>Clean Air Act</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A federal law enacted to ensure that air quality standards are
			attained and maintained. Initially passed by Congress in 1963, it
			has been amended several times.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Clear_Text">
		<glossterm>Clear Text</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The use of plain English in radio communications
			transmissions. No Ten Codes or agency specific codes are used when
			using Clear Text.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Climate">
		<glossterm>Climate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The prevalent or characteristic meteorological conditions of
			any place or region, and their extremes.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Climate_Class">
		<glossterm>Climate Class</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In NFDRS, one of four classifications of general climate of an
			area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Climatological_Breakpoint">
		<glossterm>Climatological Breakpoint</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Points on the cumulative distribution of one fire weather/fire
			danger index without regard to associated fire
			occurrence/business.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Clock_Method">
		<glossterm>Clock Method</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Means of establishing a flight path to a target on a fire by
			referring to clock directions from the aircraft's present location,
			with the nose of the aircraft pointing at 12:00.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Closed_Area">
		<glossterm>Closed Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area in which specified activities or entry are temporarily
			restricted to reduce risk of human-caused fires or to mitigate the
			risk to human health or safety by potential or on-going wildland
			fires.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Closure">
		<glossterm>Closure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An administrative action limiting or prohibiting access to a
			specific geographic or jurisdictional area for the purposes of
			reducing wildfire or the risk it poses to life, property, and/or
			resources. Example of use: "Pursuant to 36 C.F.R. 261.50 (a) and
			(b), it is hereby ordered that the prohibitions hereinafter set
			forth apply to the general forest area of the Ozark-St. Francis
			National Forests until further notice."</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Restrictions">
				<linktext>Restrictions</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cloud">
		<glossterm>Cloud</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A visible cluster of minute water/ice particles in the
			atmosphere.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cloudy">
		<glossterm>Cloudy</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Adjective class representing the degree to which the sky is
			obscured by clouds. In weather forecast terminology, expected cloud
			cover of about 0.7 or more warrants use of this term. In the
			National Fire Danger Rating System, 0.6 or more cloud cover is
			termed "cloudy."</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Co-op_Fire">
		<glossterm>Co-op Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Refers to federal, state, and local cooperative fire
			programs.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cold_Front">
		<glossterm>Cold Front</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The leading edge of a relatively cold air mass which displaces
			warmer air, causing it to rise. If the lifted air contains enough
			moisture, cloudiness, precipitation and even thunderstorms may
			result. As fronts move through a region, in the Northern Hemisphere,
			the winds at a given location will experience a marked shift in
			direction. Ahead of an approaching cold front, winds will usually
			shift gradually from southeast to south, and on to southwest. As a
			cold front passes, winds shift rapidly to west, then northwest.
			Typical cold front windspeeds range between 15 and 30 mph but can be
			much higher.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cold_Line">
		<glossterm>Cold Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fireline that has been controlled. The fire has been mopped up
			for a safe distance inside the line and can be considered safe to
			leave unattended.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cold_Trailing">
		<glossterm>Cold Trailing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A method of controlling a partly dead fire edge by carefully
			inspecting and feeling with the hand for heat to detect any fire,
			digging out every live spot, and trenching any live edge.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Collective_Control">
		<glossterm>Collective Control</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Controls the pitch angle of the main (helicopter) rotor
			blades. Used as primary altitude control.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Colonizer">
		<glossterm>Colonizer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Species of vegetation that establish on a burned (or otherwise
			denuded) site from seed.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Combination_Nozzle">
		<glossterm>Combination Nozzle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A nozzle is designed to provide either a solid stream or a
			fixed spray pattern suitable for applying water, wet water or foam
			solution. Also called: Adjustable Fog Nozzle.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Combination_Nozzle_Tip">
		<glossterm>Combination Nozzle Tip</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Two attached straight stream nozzle tips of different orifice
			size used to increase or restrict water flow.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Combustion">
		<glossterm>Combustion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The rapid oxidation of fuel in which heat and usually flame
			are produced. Combustion can be divided into four phases:
			preignition, flaming, smoldering, and glowing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Combustion_Efficiency">
		<glossterm>Combustion Efficiency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The relative amount of time a fire burns in the flaming phase
			of combustion, as compared to smoldering combustion. A ratio of the
			amount of fuel that is consumed in flaming combustion compared to
			the amount of fuel consumed during the smoldering phase, in which
			more of the fuel material is emitted as smoke particles because it
			is not turned into carbon dioxide and water.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Combustion_Period">
		<glossterm>Combustion Period</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Total time required for a specified fuel component to be
			completely consumed.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Combustion_Rate">
		<glossterm>Combustion Rate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Rate of heat release per unit of burning area per unit of
			time.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Reaction_Intensity">
				<linktext>Reaction Intensity</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Command">
		<glossterm>Command</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The act of directing, and/or controlling resources by virtue
			of explicit legal, agency, or delegated authority.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Command_Climate">
		<glossterm>Command Climate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The working environment within the influence of a particular
			leader or chain of command. The command climate is based on the
			subordinates' understanding of how they are expected to perform, how
			they are treated, and how they must conform to the leader's
			style.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Command_Presence">
		<glossterm>Command Presence</glossterm>
		<glossdef>How leaders present themselves to others. The personal
			attributes and traits that determine whether leaders are worthy of
			trust and respect from their subordinates.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Command_Staff">
		<glossterm>Command Staff</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The command staff consists of the information officer, safety
			officer and liaison officer. They report directly to the incident
			commander and may have an assistant or assistants, as
			needed.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Commercial_Forest_Land">
		<glossterm>Commercial Forest Land</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Land that is producing, or is capable of producing, crops of
			industrial wood and is not withdrawn from timber use by statute or
			administrative regulation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Commissary">
		<glossterm>Commissary</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Supply of items such as candy, tobacco products, toilet items,
			and work clothes that are made available for sale to all incident
			personnel.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Commissary_Manager">
		<glossterm>Commissary Manager</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible to the time unit leader for operating the
			commissary at an incident base or camp.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>CMSY</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Communications_Unit">
		<glossterm>Communications Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An organizational unit in the Logistics Section responsible
			for providing and maintaining communication services at an incident.
			May also be a facility (e.g., a trailer or mobile van) used to
			provide the major part of an incident communications
			center.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Communications_Unit_Leader">
		<glossterm>Communications Unit Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the
			Communications Unit. Reports to the Service Branch Director or
			Logistics Section Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>COML</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Communications_Unit">
				<linktext>Communications Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Community_Wildfire_Protection_Plan">
		<glossterm>Community Wildfire Protection Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A plan developed in the collaborative framework established by
			the Wildland Fire Leadership Council and agreed to by state, tribal,
			and local government, local fire department, other stakeholders and
			federal land management agencies managing land in the vicinity of
			the planning area. A Community Wildfire Protection Plan (CWPP)
			identifies and prioritizes areas for hazardous fuel reduction
			treatments and recommends the types and methods of treatment on
			Federal and non-Federal land that will protect one or more at-risk
			communities and essential infrastructure and recommends measures to
			reduce structural ignitability throughout the at-risk community. A
			CWPP may address issues such as wildfire response, hazard
			mitigation, community preparedness, or structure protection – or all
			of the above.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>CWPP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Compact">
		<glossterm>Compact</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A formal working agreement among agencies to obtain mutual
			aid.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Compactness">
		<glossterm>Compactness</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Spacing between fuel particles.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Bulk_Density">
				<linktext>Bulk Density</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Company">
		<glossterm>Company</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any piece of (fire) equipment having a full complement of
			personnel.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Compare_and_Contrast">
		<glossterm>Compare and Contrast</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An investigative technique that involves comparing same sized
			indicators within a category at separate locations; looking for
			either differences or similarities in appearance.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Compass_Rose">
		<glossterm>Compass Rose</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A circle, graduated in degrees, printed on some charts or
			marked on the ground at an airport or heliport. It is used as a
			reference to either true or magnetic direction.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Compensation-for-Injury_Manager">
		<glossterm>Compensation-for-Injury Manager</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible to the Compensation/Claims Unit Leader for
			administrative matters arising from serious injuries and fatalities
			occurring on the incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Compensation_Claims_Unit">
		<glossterm>Compensation/Claims Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Functional unit within the Finance/Administration Section
			responsible for the overall management and direction of all
			Compensation-for-Injury and Claims Specialists assigned to the
			incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Compensation_Claims_Unit_Leader">
		<glossterm>Compensation/Claims Unit Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the
			Compensation/Claims Unit. Reports to the Finance/Administration
			Section Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>COMP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Compensation_Claims_Unit">
				<linktext>Compensation/Claims Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Competency">
		<glossterm>Competency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A broad description that groups core behaviors necessary to
			perform a specific function.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Behavior">
				<linktext>Behavior</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Competent_Ignition_Source">
		<glossterm>Competent Ignition Source</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A source of heat that is capable of kindling a wildfire. It
			may be in the form of a mechanical or electrical spark, glowing
			ember, open flame, chemical reaction or friction.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Complex">
		<glossterm>Complex</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Two or more individual incidents located in the same general
			area which are assigned to a single incident commander or unified
			command.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Compressed_Air_Foam_Systems">
		<glossterm>Compressed Air Foam Systems</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A generic term used to describe foam systems consisting of an
			air compressor (or air source), a water pump, and foam
			solution.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>CAFS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Computed_Gross_Weight">
		<glossterm>Computed Gross Weight</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Term used in calculating from performance charts the
			permissible helicopter payload at which a helicopter is capable of
			hovering in ground effect or hovering out of ground effect, based on
			pressure altitude and air temperature.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Concentrate">
		<glossterm>Concentrate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A substance that has been concentrated; specifically, a liquid
			that has been made denser, as by the removal of some of its
			water.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Conceptual_Model">
		<glossterm>Conceptual Model</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A model that is a diagram or description of a set of
			relationships between factors that describe how a system works, such
			as an ecological model.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Model">
				<linktext>Model</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Condensation">
		<glossterm>Condensation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The process by which a gas becomes a liquid.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Condition_Class">
		<glossterm>Condition Class</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Depiction of the degree of departure from historical fire
			regimes, possibly resulting in alternations of key ecosystem
			components. These classes categorize and describe vegetation
			composition and structure conditions that currently exist inside the
			Fire Regime Groups. Based on the coarse-scale national data, they
			serve as generalized wildfire rankings. The risk of loss of key
			ecosystem components from wildfires increases from Condition Class 1
			(lowest risk) to Condition Class 3 (highest risk).</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire_Regime_Current_Condition_Class" role="other"
				otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Fire Regime Current Condition Class</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Condition_of_Vegetation">
		<glossterm>Condition of Vegetation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Stage of growth or degree of flammability of vegetation that
			forms part of a fuel complex. Herbaceous stage is at times used when
			referring to herbaceous vegetation alone. In grass areas minimum
			qualitative distinctions for stages of annual growth are usually
			green, curing, and dry or cured.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Conduction">
		<glossterm>Conduction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Heat transfer through a material from a region of higher
			temperature to a region of lower temperature.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Confinement">
		<glossterm>Confinement</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The strategy employed in appropriate management responses
			where a fire perimeter is managed by a combination of direct and
			indirect actions and use of natural topographic features, fuel, and
			weather factors.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Conflagration">
		<glossterm>Conflagration</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A raging, destructive fire. Often used to connote such a fire
			with a moving front as distinguished from a fire storm.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Conflagration_Threat">
		<glossterm>Conflagration Threat</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Likelihood that a wildfire capable of causing considerable
			damage will occur.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Consistency_Foam">
		<glossterm>Consistency (Foam)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Uniformity and size of bubbles.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Constant_Danger">
		<glossterm>Constant Danger</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Resultant of all fire danger factors that are relatively
			unchanging in a specific area (e.g., resource values at risk,
			topography, fuel type, exposure to prevailing wind).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Consumption">
		<glossterm>Consumption</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The amount of a specified fuel type or strata that is removed
			through the fire process, often expressed as a percentage of the
			preburn weight.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Contained">
		<glossterm>Contained</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The status of a wildfire suppression action signifying that a
			control line has been completed around the fire, and any associated
			spot fires, which can reasonably be expected to stop the fire’s
			spread.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Containment">
				<linktext>Containment</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Containment1">
				<linktext>Containment</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Containment">
		<glossterm>Containment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The status of a wildfire suppression action signifying that a
			control line has been completed around the fire, and any associated
			spot fires, which can reasonably be expected to stop the fire’s
			spread.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Contained">
				<linktext>Contained</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Containment1">
		<glossterm>Containment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The act of controlling hazardous spilled or leaking
			materials.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Contained">
				<linktext>Contained</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Continental_Climate">
		<glossterm>Continental Climate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Climate that is characteristic of the interior of a land mass
			of continental size, marked by large annual diurnal and day-to-day
			ranges of temperature, low relative humidity and irregular
			precipitation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Contingency_Actions">
		<glossterm>Contingency Actions</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A back-up plan of action when actions described in the primary
			plan are no longer appropriate. Contingency actions are required to
			be taken when the result exceeds its intent. Actions are taken to
			return the project to its intended design.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Contingency_Plan">
		<glossterm>Contingency Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The portion of a prescribed fire plan, incident action plan,
			or wildland fire use implementation plan that identifies possible
			but unlikely events and the contingency resources needed to mitigate
			those events.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Contingency_Resources">
		<glossterm>Contingency Resources</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Planned and identified fire suppression personnel and
			equipment that mitigate possible but unlikely events that exceed or
			are expected to exceed holding resource capabilities.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Contour_Map">
		<glossterm>Contour Map</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A map having lines of equal elevation that represent the land
			surface (Topographic).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Control_Force">
		<glossterm>Control Force</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Personnel and equipment used to control a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Control_Line">
		<glossterm>Control Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An inclusive term for all constructed or natural barriers and
			treated fire edges used to control a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Control_Time">
		<glossterm>Control Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The time a fire is declared controlled.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Controlled">
		<glossterm>Controlled</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The completion of control line around a fire, any spot fires
			therefrom, and any interior islands to be saved; burned out any
			unburned area adjacent to the fire side of the control lines; and
			cool down all hot spots that are immediate threats to the control
			line, until the lines can reasonably be expected to hold under the
			foreseeable conditions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Controlled_Airspace">
		<glossterm>Controlled Airspace</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Airspace of defined dimensions within which air traffic
			control service is provided to IFR and VFR flights in accordance
			with the airspace classification.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Controlling_Nozzle">
		<glossterm>Controlling Nozzle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Shut-off nozzle that permits the nozzle operator to open or
			close the nozzle or adjust the pattern of the stream.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Convection">
		<glossterm>Convection</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The transfer of heat by the movement of a gas or liquid;
			convection, conduction, and radiation are the principal means of
			energy transfer.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Convection1">
		<glossterm>Convection</glossterm>
		<glossdef>As specialized in meteorology, atmospheric motions that are
			predominantly vertical in the absence of wind (which distinguishes
			this process from advection), resulting in vertical transport and
			mixing of atmospheric properties.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Convection_Column">
		<glossterm>Convection Column</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The rising column of gases, smoke, fly ash, particulates, and
			other debris produced by a fire. The column has a strong vertical
			component indicating that buoyant forces override the ambient
			surface wind.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Smoke_Plume">
				<linktext>Smoke Plume</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Convective-lift_Fire_Phase">
		<glossterm>Convective-lift Fire Phase</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The phase of a fire when most of the emissions are entrained
			into a definite convection column.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Convective_Activity">
		<glossterm>Convective Activity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>General term for manifestations of convection in the
			atmosphere, alluding particularly to the development of convective
			clouds and resulting weather phenomena, such as showers,
			thunderstorms, squalls, hail, tornadoes, etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Convergence">
		<glossterm>Convergence</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The term for horizontal air currents merging together or
			approaching a single point, such as at the center of a low pressure
			area producing a net inflow of air. When this occurs in the lower
			atmosphere, the excess air is removed by rising air currents.
			Expansion of the rising air above a convergence zone results in
			cooling, which in turn often gives condensation (clouds) and
			sometimes precipitation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Convergence_Zone">
		<glossterm>Convergence Zone</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The area of increased flame height and fire intensity produced
			when two or more fire fronts burn together.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Convergence_Zone1">
		<glossterm>Convergence Zone</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In fire weather, that area where two winds come together from
			opposite directions and are forced upwards often creating clouds and
			precipitation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Conversion_Burning">
		<glossterm>Conversion Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Burning an area where brush has excluded forest reproduction
			to prepare the area for tree planting.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cooperating_Agency">
		<glossterm>Cooperating Agency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An agency supplying assistance including but not limited to
			direct tactical or support functions or resources to the incident
			control effort (e.g. Red Cross, law enforcement agency, telephone
			company, etc.).</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Agency">
				<linktext>Agency</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Agency_Representative">
				<linktext>Agency Representative</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Assisting_Agency">
				<linktext>Assisting Agency</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Supporting_Agency">
				<linktext>Supporting Agency</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cooperative_Fire_Protection">
		<glossterm>Cooperative Fire Protection</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A staff unit within the branch of State and Private Forestry
			or Aviation and Fire Management in the National Forest System, USDA
			Forest Service, that coordinates cooperative fire
			activities.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>CFP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cooperator">
		<glossterm>Cooperator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Local agency or person who has agreed in advance to perform
			specified fire control services and has been properly instructed to
			give such service.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Coordinated_Resource_Management">
		<glossterm>Coordinated Resource Management</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A process that directly involves everyone concerned with
			resource management in a given planning area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Coordinates">
		<glossterm>Coordinates</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The intersection of lines of reference, usually expressed in
			degrees/minutes/seconds of latitude and longitude, used to determine
			or report position or location.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Coordination">
		<glossterm>Coordination</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The process of systematically analyzing a situation,
			developing relevant information, and informing appropriate command
			authority of viable alternatives for selection of the most effective
			combination of available resources to meet specific objectives. The
			coordination process (which can be either intra- or interagency)
			does not involve dispatch actions. However, personnel responsible
			for coordination may perform command or dispatch functions within
			limits established by specific agency delegations, procedures, legal
			authority, etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Coordination_Center">
		<glossterm>Coordination Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Term used to describe any facility that is used for the
			coordination of agency or jurisdictional resources in support of one
			or more incidents.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Coriolis_Force">
		<glossterm>Coriolis Force</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An apparent force due to the rotation of the earth that causes
			a deflection of air to the right in the Northern Hemisphere and to
			the left in the Southern Hemisphere. This force maximizes at the
			poles and is essentially zero at the equator.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Corrosion">
		<glossterm>Corrosion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Result of chemical reaction between a metal and its
			environment (i.e., air, water, and impurities in same).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cost_Sharing_Agreements">
		<glossterm>Cost Sharing Agreements</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Agreements that document the financial responsibility for
			incident resource costs, possibly identifying requirements of other
			party payments.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cost_Unit">
		<glossterm>Cost Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Functional unit within the Finance/Administration Section
			responsible for collecting all cost data, performing cost
			effectiveness analyses, and providing cost estimates and cost saving
			advice.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cost_Unit_Leader">
		<glossterm>Cost Unit Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the Cost Unit.
			Reports to the Finance/Administration Section Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>COST</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Cost_Unit">
				<linktext>Cost Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Council_Tool">
		<glossterm>Council Tool</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Long-handled combination rake and cutting tool, the blade of
			which is constructed of a single row of three or four sharpened
			teeth. Also called fire rake, council rake.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Rich_Tool">
				<linktext>Rich Tool</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Counter_Fire">
		<glossterm>Counter Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire set between main fire and backfire to hasten spread of
			backfire. Also called draft fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Counter_Fire1">
		<glossterm>Counter Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Emergency firing to stop, delay, or split a fire front, or to
			steer a fire. Also called draft fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Coupling">
		<glossterm>Coupling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Device that connects the ends of adjacent hoses or other
			components of hose.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Adapter">
				<linktext>Adapter</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Course">
		<glossterm>Course</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In aviation, the intended direction of horizontal
			flight.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cover">
		<glossterm>Cover</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The area on the ground covered by the combined aerial parts of
			plants expressed as a percent of the total area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cover_Type">
		<glossterm>Cover Type</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The designation of a vegetation complex described by dominant
			species, age, and form.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Coverage_Level">
		<glossterm>Coverage Level</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Recommended amount of aerially applied retardant keyed to the
			NFDRS fuel models and/or fire behavior models. Coverage level 2
			represents 2 gallons of retardant per hundred square feet. Levels
			range from 1 to 6 for most fuel models. A coverage level of greater
			than 6 is for heavy fuels. The levels can be adjusted for fire
			behavior.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Coyote_Tactics">
		<glossterm>Coyote Tactics</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A progressive line construction duty involving self-sufficient
			crews which build fire line until the end of the operational period,
			remain at or near the point while off duty, and begin building
			fireline the next operational period where they left off.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Crazing">
		<glossterm>Crazing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fine cracking of glass, usually from heat of fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Creeping_Fire">
		<glossterm>Creeping Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire burning with a low flame and spreading slowly.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Crew">
		<glossterm>Crew</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An organized group of firefighters under the leadership of a
			crew boss or other designated official.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Crew_Boss">
		<glossterm>Crew Boss</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A person in supervisory charge of usually 16 to 21
			firefighters and responsible for their performance, safety, and
			welfare.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>CRWB</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Crew_Shuttle">
		<glossterm>Crew Shuttle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Transportation of fireline personnel to and/or from assigned
			fireline locations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Crew_Transport">
		<glossterm>Crew Transport</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any vehicle capable of transporting a specified number of
			personnel in a specified manner.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Criteria_Pollutants">
		<glossterm>Criteria Pollutants</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Pollutants deemed most harmful to public health and welfare
			and that can be monitored effectively. They include carbon monoxide
			(CO), lead (Pb), nitrogen oxides (Nox), sulfur dioxide (SO2), ozone
			(O3), particulate matter (PM) of aerodynamic diameter less than or
			equal to 10 micrometers (PM10) and particulate matter of aerodynamic
			diameter less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers (PM2.5).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Critical_Burnout_Time">
		<glossterm>Critical Burnout Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Total time a fuel can burn and continue to feed energy to the
			base of a forward-traveling convection column.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Critical_Incident_Stress_Debriefing">
		<glossterm>Critical Incident Stress Debriefing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The process in which teams of professional and peer counselors
			provide emotional and psychological support to incident personnel
			who are or have been involved in a critical (highly stressful)
			incident.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>CISD</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cross_Shot">
		<glossterm>Cross Shot</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Intersecting lines of sight from two points to the same
			object, frequently used to determine location of a fire from
			lookouts. Also called cross bearing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Crown_Consumption">
		<glossterm>Crown Consumption</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Combustion of the twigs, and needles or leaves of a tree
			during a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Crown_Cover">
		<glossterm>Crown Cover</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ground area covered by the crown of a tree as delimited by
			the vertical projection of its outermost perimeter.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Crown_Fire">
		<glossterm>Crown Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire that advances from top to top of trees or shrubs more
			or less independent of a surface fire. Crown fires are sometimes
			classed as running or dependent to distinguish the degree of
			independence from the surface fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Crown_Out">
		<glossterm>Crown Out</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire that rises from ground into the tree crowns and
			advances from tree top to tree top. To intermittently ignite tree
			crowns as a surface fire advances.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Crown_Ratio">
		<glossterm>Crown Ratio</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ratio of live crown to tree height.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Crown_Scorch">
		<glossterm>Crown Scorch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Browning of needles or leaves in the crown of a tree or shrub
			caused by heating to lethal temperature during a fire. Crown scorch
			may not be apparent for several weeks after the fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Crown_Scorch_Height">
		<glossterm>Crown Scorch Height</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The height above the surface of the ground to which a tree
			canopy is scorched.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Crowning_Potential">
		<glossterm>Crowning Potential</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A probability that a crown fire may start, calculated from
			inputs of foliage moisture content and height of the lowest part of
			the tree crowns above the surface.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cumulonimbus">
		<glossterm>Cumulonimbus</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ultimate growth of a cumulus cloud into an anvil-shaped
			cloud with considerable vertical development, usually with fibrous
			ice crystal tops, and usually accompanied by lightning, thunder,
			hail, and strong winds.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cumulus">
		<glossterm>Cumulus</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A principal low cloud type in the form of individual
			cauliflower-like cells of sharp non-fibrous outline and less
			vertical development than cumulonimbus.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cup_Trench">
		<glossterm>Cup Trench</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fireline trench on the downhill side of fire burning on
			steep slopes that is supposed to be built deep enough to catch
			rolling firebrands that could otherwise start fire below the
			fireline. A high berm on the outermost downhill side of the trench
			helps the cup trench catch material. Also called gutter
			trench.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cupping_Indicators">
		<glossterm>Cupping Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A concave or cup-shaped depression on grass stem ends, small
			stumps, and terminal ends of brush and tree limbs.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Curb_Weight">
		<glossterm>Curb Weight</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Weight of a truck empty (without payload and driver) but ready
			to drive, including a full fuel tank, cooling system, crankcase,
			tools, spare wheel, and all other equipment specified as
			standard.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Cured">
		<glossterm>Cured</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In the 1978 version of NFDRS, the herbaceous stage when
			herbaceous fuel moisture falls to 30% or less.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Curing">
		<glossterm>Curing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Drying and browning of herbaceous vegetation due to mortality
			or senescence, and also loss of live fuel moisture content of woody
			fuel following mechanically-caused mortality (e.g., woody debris
			slash.)</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Curling_Indicators">
		<glossterm>Curling Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Green leaves on succulent, uncured vegetation which bends and
			curls inwards towards the heat source.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Daily_Activity_Level">
		<glossterm>Daily Activity Level</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). In
			fire danger rating, a subjective estimate of the degree of activity
			of a potential human-caused fire source relative to that which is
			normally experienced. Five activity levels are defined: none, low,
			normal, high, and extreme.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Damage_Differential">
		<glossterm>Damage Differential</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The difference in change or damage that occurs to similar
			objects after they are exposed to fire of differing intensity and/or
			duration. The underlying principle behind the interpretation of burn
			pattern.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Damage_Differential_Indicators">
		<glossterm>Damage Differential Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The amount of fire related destruction to combustible objects
			determined by comparing opposing sides of an object.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dead_Fuels">
		<glossterm>Dead Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fuels with no living tissue in which moisture content is
			governed almost entirely by absorption or evaporation of atmospheric
			moisture (relative humidity and precipitation).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Debris_Burning_Fire">
		<glossterm>Debris Burning Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In fire suppression terminology, a fire spreading from any
			fire originally ignited to clear land or burn rubbish, garbage, crop
			stubble, or meadows (excluding incendiary fires).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Debris_Burning_Fire1">
		<glossterm>Debris Burning Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In prescribed fire terminology, a fire used to dispose of
			scattered, piled, or windrowed dead woody fuel, generally in the
			absence of a merchantable overstory. Its purpose is to reduce
			unsightly fuel concentrations, or consume unwanted natural fuels to
			facilitate subsequent resource management or land use actions on the
			area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Deck">
		<glossterm>Deck</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The helibase operational area that includes the touchdown pad,
			safety circle, hover lanes, and external cargo transport
			area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Deck_Coordinator">
		<glossterm>Deck Coordinator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible to the helibase manager for coordinating
			the movement of personnel and cargo at the helibase landing
			area.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DECK</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Deep-Seated_Fire">
		<glossterm>Deep-Seated Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire burning far below the surface in duff, mulch, peat, or
			other combustibles as contrasted with a surface fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Deep-Seated_Fire1">
		<glossterm>Deep-Seated Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire that has gained headway and built up heat in a
			structure so as to require greater cooling for
			extinguishment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Deepening">
		<glossterm>Deepening</glossterm>
		<glossdef>As it refers to atmospheric pressure, a decrease in the
			central pressure of a low. This is usually accompanied by
			intensification of the cyclonic circulation (counter-clockwise wind
			flow around the low).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Deflagration">
		<glossterm>Deflagration</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Chemical decomposition by burning material in which the
			reaction is less than sonic velocity, for example, low
			explosives.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Deflagration1">
		<glossterm>Deflagration</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A burning with great heat and intense light.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Degradation">
		<glossterm>Degradation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In a discussion of fire retardant slurries, deterioration of
			viscosity.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Delayed_Aerial_Ignition_Devices">
		<glossterm>Delayed Aerial Ignition Devices</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Polystyrene balls, 1.25 inches in diameter, containing
			potassium permanganate. The balls are fed into a dispenser,
			generally mounted in a helicopter, where they are injected with a
			water-glycol solution and then drop through a chute leading out of
			the helicopter. The chemicals react thermally and ignite in 25-30
			seconds. The space between ignition points on the ground is
			primarily a function of helicopter speed, gear ratio of the
			dispenser, and the number of chutes used (up to four).</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DAID</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Aerial_Ignition_Device">
				<linktext>Aerial Ignition Device</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Helitorch">
				<linktext>Helitorch</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Ping-Pong_Ball_System">
				<linktext>Ping-Pong Ball System</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Plastic_Sphere_Dispenser">
				<linktext>Plastic Sphere Dispenser</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Delegation_of_Authority">
		<glossterm>Delegation of Authority</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A statement provided to the incident commander by the agency
			executive delegating authority and assigning responsibility. The
			delegation of authority can include objectives, priorities,
			expectations, constraints and other considerations or guidelines as
			needed. Many agencies require written delegation of authority to be
			given to incident commanders prior to their assuming command on
			larger incidents.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Demobilization">
		<glossterm>Demobilization</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Release of resources from an incident in strict accordance
			with a detailed plan approved by the incident commander.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Demobilization_Unit">
		<glossterm>Demobilization Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Functional unit within the planning section responsible for
			assuring orderly, safe and efficient demobilization of incident
			resources.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Demobilization_Unit_Leader">
		<glossterm>Demobilization Unit Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the
			Demobilization Unit. Reports to the Planning Section
			Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DMOB</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Demobilization_Unit">
				<linktext>Demobilization Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dense_Layer">
		<glossterm>Dense Layer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A layer of clouds whose ratio of dense sky cover to total sky
			cover is more than one-half.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dense_Sky_Cover">
		<glossterm>Dense Sky Cover</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Sky cover that prevents detection of higher clouds or the sky
			above it.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Density_Foam">
		<glossterm>Density (Foam)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ratio of the original volume of the nonaerated foam
			solution to the resultant volume of foam. The inverse of
			expansion.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Density_Altitude">
		<glossterm>Density Altitude</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Pressure altitude corrected for temperature deviations from
			standard atmosphere. Used as an index to aircraft performance
			characteristics such as take-off distance and rate of climb. Density
			altitude bears the same relation to pressure altitude as true
			altitude does to indicated altitude.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Departure_from_Average_Greenness">
		<glossterm>Departure from Average Greenness</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An NDVI-derived image of vegetation greenness compared to its
			average greenness for the current week of the year.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Deployment_Zone">
		<glossterm>Deployment Zone</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Deployment zones are last ditch areas where fire shelters must
			be deployed to ensure firefighter survival due to the available
			space and/or fire behavior conditions at the deployment zone
			location. Used when fire conditions are such that escape routes and
			safety zones have been compromised.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Safety_Zone">
				<linktext>Safety Zone</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Depth_of_Burn">
		<glossterm>Depth of Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The reduction in forest floor thickness due to consumption by
			fire.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DOB</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Depth_of_Char_Indicators">
		<glossterm>Depth of Char Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Sometimes referred to as "alligatoring", where combustible
			material appears to have a fissured or scaly appearance similar to
			an alligator's hide. Most commonly associated with finished lumber
			products, such as boards and fence posts.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Deputy">
		<glossterm>Deputy</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A qualified individual who could be delegated the authority to
			manage a functional operation or perform a specific task. In some
			cases, a Deputy could act as relief for a superior. Deputies can be
			assigned to the incident commander, general staff, and branch
			directors.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Desiccant">
		<glossterm>Desiccant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Chemical that, when applied to a living plant, causes or
			accelerates drying of its aerial parts; used to facilitate burning
			of living vegetation by substantially lowering fuel moisture content
			within a few hours.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Designated_Area">
		<glossterm>Designated Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Those areas identified as principal population centers or
			other areas requiring protection under state or federal air quality
			laws or regulations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Designated_Dispatch_Point">
		<glossterm>Designated Dispatch Point</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The address where the unit must be physically located, and
			dispatched from, during the mandatory availability
			period.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DDP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Detection">
		<glossterm>Detection</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The act or system of discovering and locating
			fires.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire_Detection" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Fire Detection</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Discovery">
				<linktext>Discovery</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Detonation">
		<glossterm>Detonation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An extreme rapid decomposition of a material in which the
			reaction is more than a sonic velocity, for example, high
			explosives.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dew_Point">
		<glossterm>Dew Point</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Temperature to which a specified parcel of air must cool, at
			constant pressure and water-vapor content, in order for saturation
			to occur. The dew point is always lower than the wet-bulb
			temperature, which is always lower than the dry-bulb temperature,
			except when the air is saturated and all three values are equal. Fog
			may form when temperature drops to equal the dew point.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Diagram">
		<glossterm>Diagram</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A scale drawing showing information about a fire
			scene.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Die-Out_Pattern_Indicators">
		<glossterm>Die-Out Pattern Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fingers or islands of less intensely burned areas or areas
			where the fire has self extinguished.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Digital_Elevation_Model">
		<glossterm>Digital Elevation Model</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A set of points which defines the terrain as numbers for
			computer applications. This data may be used to draw contours, make
			ortho photos, slope maps, and drive fire models.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dilution">
		<glossterm>Dilution</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A control strategy used in managing smoke from prescribed
			fires in which smoke concentration is reduced by diluting it through
			a greater volume of air, either by scheduling during good dispersion
			conditions or burning at a slower rate.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Dispersion">
				<linktext>Dispersion</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Direct_Attack">
		<glossterm>Direct Attack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any treatment applied directly to burning fuel such as
			wetting, smothering, or chemically quenching the fire or by
			physically separating the burning from unburned fuel.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Direct Line</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Direct_Protection_Area">
		<glossterm>Direct Protection Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That area for which a particular fire protection organization
			has the primary responsibility for attacking an uncontrolled fire
			and for directing the suppression action. Such responsibility may
			develop through law, contract, or personal interest of the
			firefighting agent (e.g., a lumber operator). Several agencies or
			entities may have some basic responsibilities (e.g., private owner)
			without being known as the fire organization having direct
			protection responsibility.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Protection Area</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Directional_Vectors">
		<glossterm>Directional Vectors</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The physical characteristics of the indicators that show the
			direction of fire spread, i.e., advancing, backing, or
			lateral.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Director">
		<glossterm>Director</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS title for an individual responsible for supervision of
			a branch.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Discovery">
		<glossterm>Discovery</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Determination that a fire exists. Location and reporting of a
			fire is not required as is with detection.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Detection">
				<linktext>Detection</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Discovery_Time">
		<glossterm>Discovery Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Elapsed time from start of fire (known or estimated) until the
			time of the first discovery that results directly in fire
			suppression action.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Discrete_Frequency">
		<glossterm>Discrete Frequency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A separate radio frequency most commonly used in air traffic
			control which reduces frequency congestion by controlling the number
			of aircraft or other resources operating on a particular
			frequency.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dispatch">
		<glossterm>Dispatch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The implementation of a command decision to move a resource or
			resources from one place to another.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dispatch_Center">
		<glossterm>Dispatch Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A facility from which resources are assigned to an
			incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dispatcher">
		<glossterm>Dispatcher</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A person who receives reports of discovery and status of
			fires, confirms their locations, takes action promptly to provide
			people and equipment likely to be needed for control
			efforts.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Agency_Dispatcher">
				<linktext>Agency Dispatcher</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dispersion">
		<glossterm>Dispersion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The decrease in concentration of airborne pollutants as they
			spread throughout an increasing volume of atmosphere.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Dilution">
				<linktext>Dilution</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Display_Class">
		<glossterm>Display Class</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In WIMS, a one-digit number representing the number of
			decision points used to evaluate the magnitude of the Staffing
			Index.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Display_Class_Breakpoints">
		<glossterm>Display Class Breakpoints</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In WIMS, the climatological breakpoints separating the highest
			staffing levels. Commonly these are the index values corresponding
			to the 90th and 97th or 80th and 95th percentiles for the staffing
			index.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Display_Processor">
		<glossterm>Display Processor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for displaying incident status
			information obtained from Field Observers, technical specialists,
			resource status reports, aerial photographs, and infrared data.
			Reports to the Situation Unit Leader.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DPRO</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Situation_Unit">
				<linktext>Situation Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Distance_Learning">
		<glossterm>Distance Learning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A concept of providing access to quality wildland fire
			education and training using appropriate instructional technology,
			delivered anywhere, anytime to prepare a fire management work force
			to safely achieve fire management objectives.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#eLearning">
				<linktext>eLearning</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Distance_Measuring_Equipment">
		<glossterm>Distance Measuring Equipment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Aircraft navigational equipment that provides the slant range
			distance in miles (kilometers) from the aircraft to the VOR station
			to which the DME is tuned, usually at or near an airport.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DME</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Distributed_Incident_Simulation_Exercise">
		<glossterm>Distributed Incident Simulation Exercise</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An on-line mission rehearsal event providing an individual or
			team with an experiential learning environment utilizing the
			National Interagency Incident Management System to "game" a computer
			generated incident from multiple training locations.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DISE</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Simulation">
				<linktext>Simulation</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Disturbance">
		<glossterm>Disturbance</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A weather system usually associated with clouds, rain and/or
			wind.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Diurnal">
		<glossterm>Diurnal</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Daily, especially pertaining to cyclic actions which are
			completed within 24 hours, and which recur every 24 hours, such as
			temperature, relative humidity and wind.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Divergence">
		<glossterm>Divergence</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The expansion or spreading out of a horizontal wind field.
			Generally associated with high pressure and light winds.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Division">
		<glossterm>Division</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS organization level between the branch and the task
			force/strike team. Divisions are used to divide an incident into
			geographical areas of operation. Divisions are established when the
			number of resources exceeds the span-of-control of the operations
			chief.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Group">
				<linktext>Group</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Division_Group_Supervisor">
		<glossterm>Division/Group Supervisor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising equipment and
			personnel assigned to a division or group. Reports to a Branch
			Director or Operations Section Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DIVS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Division">
				<linktext>Division</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Group">
				<linktext>Group</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Documentation_Unit">
		<glossterm>Documentation Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Functional unit within the planning section responsible for
			collecting, recording and safeguarding all documents relevant to the
			incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Documentation_Unit_Leader">
		<glossterm>Documentation Unit Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the Documentation
			Unit. Reports to the Planning Section Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DOCL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Documentation_Unit">
				<linktext>Documentation Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dormant_Season_Burning">
		<glossterm>Dormant Season Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Prescribed burning early in the dry season before the leaves
			and undergrowth are completely dry or before the leaves are shed, as
			an insurance against more severe fire damage later on.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Double_Arsonist">
		<glossterm>Double Arsonist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An offender who sets two fires at one site, at the same time,
			in a single event.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Double_Doughnut">
		<glossterm>Double Doughnut</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Two lengths of hose rolled side by side or a single length
			rolled into two small coils for convenient handling.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Doughnut_Roll">
				<linktext>Doughnut Roll</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Double_Female_Coupling">
		<glossterm>Double Female Coupling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A hose-coupling device having two female swivel couplings to
			permit joining two male hose nipples of the same size and thread
			type when lines are laid with couplings in opposite or reverse
			directions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Double_Jacket_Hose">
		<glossterm>Double Jacket Hose</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire hose having two cotton or other fiber jackets outside the
			rubber lining or tubing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Double_Male_Coupling">
		<glossterm>Double Male Coupling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A hose-coupling device having two male thread nipples for
			connecting hose and for connecting two female couplings of the same
			diameter.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Doughnut_Roll">
		<glossterm>Doughnut Roll</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A 50 or 100-foot length of hose or a 50-foot length of hose
			rolled up for easy handling. There are various ways of forming the
			doughnut. A convenient one has both couplings close together with
			the male thread protected by the female coupling.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Double_Doughnut">
				<linktext>Double Doughnut</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Downloading">
		<glossterm>Downloading</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A calculated reduction in actual payload to provide a margin
			of safety.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dozer">
		<glossterm>Dozer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any tracked vehicle with a front mounted blade used for
			exposing mineral soil.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Tractor">
				<linktext>Tractor</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dozer_Boss">
		<glossterm>Dozer Boss</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The individual responsible for supervising the operations of a
			dozer.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DOZB</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dozer_Company">
		<glossterm>Dozer Company</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A resource that includes a dozer, its transportation unit and
			a standard complement of personnel for its operation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dozer_Line">
		<glossterm>Dozer Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fireline constructed by the front blade of a dozer.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Plow_Line">
				<linktext>Plow Line</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dozer_Tender">
		<glossterm>Dozer Tender</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any ground vehicle with personnel capable of maintenance,
			minor repairs, and limited fueling of dozers.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Draft">
		<glossterm>Draft</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Drawing water from static sources such as a lake, pond,
			cistern, river, etc. into a pump which is above the level of the
			water supply. This is done by removing the air from the pump and
			allowing atmospheric pressure [14.7 psi (101 kPa) at sea level] to
			push water through a noncollapsible suction hose into the
			pump.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Drain_Time">
		<glossterm>Drain Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The time (minutes) it takes for foam solution to drop out from
			the foam mass; for a specified percent of the total solution
			contained in the foam to revert to liquid and drain out of the
			bubble structure.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Draped_Fuels">
		<glossterm>Draped Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Needles, leaves, and twigs that have fallen from above and
			have lodged on lower branches or brush. Draped fuels are part of
			aerial fuels.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Aerial_Fuels">
				<linktext>Aerial Fuels</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Drift">
		<glossterm>Drift</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Effect of wind on smoke, retardant drops, paracargo,
			smokejumper streamers, etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Drift_Smoke">
		<glossterm>Drift Smoke</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Smoke that has drifted from its point of origin and is no
			longer dominated by convective motion. May give false impression of
			a fire in the general area where the smoke has drifted.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Drip_Torch">
		<glossterm>Drip Torch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Hand-held device for igniting fires by dripping flaming liquid
			fuel on the materials to be burned; consists of a fuel fount, burner
			arm, and igniter. Fuel used is generally a mixture of diesel and
			gasoline.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Backfire_Torch">
				<linktext>Backfire Torch</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Flame_Thrower">
				<linktext>Flame Thrower</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Drive_Axle">
		<glossterm>Drive Axle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An axle that supports a portion of the vehicle weight and
			transmits a driving force to the wheels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Drive_Wheels">
		<glossterm>Drive Wheels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Wheels powered by all of the vehicle's drive axles. Dual tires
			are considered as single wheels. The number of wheels is commonly
			referenced by the terms "4x2", "4x4", etc. where the first figure
			indicates the total number of wheels on the ground and the second
			figure, the number of drive wheels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Drizzle">
		<glossterm>Drizzle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Precipitation composed exclusively of water drops smaller than
			0.02 inches (0.5 mm) in diameter.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Drop_Configuration">
		<glossterm>Drop Configuration</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The type of retardant drop selected to cover a ground target.
			Terms that can specify the type of drop configuration include Salvo
			Drop and Trail Drop.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Salvo_Drop">
				<linktext>Salvo Drop</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Trail_Drop">
				<linktext>Trail Drop</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Drop_Pass">
		<glossterm>Drop Pass</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Indicates that the air tanker has the target in sight and will
			make a retardant drop on this run over the target.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Drop_Pattern">
		<glossterm>Drop Pattern</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The distribution of an aerially delivered retardant drop on
			the target area in terms of its length, width, and momentum
			(velocity x mass) as it approaches the ground. The latter determines
			the relative coverage level of the fire retardant on fuels within
			the pattern.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Pattern" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Pattern</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Drop_Zone">
		<glossterm>Drop Zone</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Target area for airtankers, helitankers, cargo
			dropping.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DZ</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Target">
				<linktext>Target</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Drought">
		<glossterm>Drought</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A period of relatively long duration with substantially
			below-normal precipitation, usually occurring over a large
			area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Drought_Index">
		<glossterm>Drought Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A number representing the net effect of evaporation,
			transpiration and precipitation in producing cumulative moisture
			depletion in deep duff or upper soil layers.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Keetch-Byram_Drought_Index">
				<linktext>Keetch-Byram Drought Index</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Drum_Lifter">
		<glossterm>Drum Lifter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Device used to transport a 55-gallon drum (208 L) via sling on
			a helicopter.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dry-bulb_Temperature">
		<glossterm>Dry-bulb Temperature</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Temperature of the air.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dry-bulb_Thermometer">
		<glossterm>Dry-bulb Thermometer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In a psychrometer, the thermometer not covered with muslin
			which is used to determine air temperature.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dry_Adiabatic_Lapse_Rate">
		<glossterm>Dry Adiabatic Lapse Rate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The rate of decrease of temperature with height of a parcel of
			dry air lifted adiabatically through an atmosphere in hydrostatic
			equilibrium. Numerically equal to 9.7670 C degrees per km or about
			5.40 F degrees per thousand feet.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dry_Air_Mass">
		<glossterm>Dry Air Mass</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A portion of the atmosphere that has a relatively low dew
			point temperature and where the formation of clouds, fog, or
			precipitation is unlikely.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dry_Bulb">
		<glossterm>Dry Bulb</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A name given to an ordinary thermometer used to determine the
			temperature of the air (to distinguish it from the wet
			bulb).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dry_Bulb_Temperature">
		<glossterm>Dry Bulb Temperature</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The temperature of the air measured in the shade 4-8 feet
			above the ground.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dry_Episode">
		<glossterm>Dry Episode</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A contiguous series of days having a pre-established number of
			fire ignitions with a fuel dryness level that historically resulted
			in a significant fire event for a particular area.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DE</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fuel_Dryness_Level">
				<linktext>Fuel Dryness Level</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Significant_Fire_Event">
				<linktext>Significant Fire Event</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dry_Foam">
		<glossterm>Dry Foam</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A low expansion foam type with stable bubble structure and
			slow drain time which is used primarily for resource and property
			protection.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dry_Hydrant">
		<glossterm>Dry Hydrant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Permanent devices with fire engine threads attached to
			expedite drafting operations in locations where there are water
			sources suitable for use in fire suppression (e.g., piers, wharves,
			bridges over streams, highways adjacent to ponds).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dry_Hydrant1">
		<glossterm>Dry Hydrant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Permanently installed supply private fire pumps which depend
			upon suction sources. Also called suction pipe.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dry_Lightning_Storm">
		<glossterm>Dry Lightning Storm</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Thunderstorm in which negligible precipitation reaches the
			ground. Also called dry storm.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dry_Run">
		<glossterm>Dry Run</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A trial pass over the target area by a lead plane and/or an
			airtanker to pinpoint target areas and warn ground personnel of the
			impending retardant or extinguishing agent drop.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Dry_Storage">
		<glossterm>Dry Storage</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Refers to dry chemical retardants stored at air attack bases
			and available for mixing with water.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Wet_Storage">
				<linktext>Wet Storage</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Duff">
		<glossterm>Duff</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The layer of decomposing organic materials lying below the
			litter layer of freshly fallen twigs, needles, and leaves and
			immediately above the mineral soil.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Humus">
				<linktext>Humus</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Litter">
				<linktext>Litter</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Durability_Foam">
		<glossterm>Durability (Foam)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The effective life span of foam bubbles.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Duty_Week">
		<glossterm>Duty Week</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Regular number of hours worked per week by a full-time
			firefighter, excluding overtime.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Economic_Fire_Protection_Theory">
		<glossterm>Economic Fire Protection Theory</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A concept postulating that the object of fire protection is to
			minimize total cost (i.e., sum of the costs of fire prevention, fire
			presuppression, fire detection, fire suppression, and net costs of
			fire damage/benefits).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ecosystem">
		<glossterm>Ecosystem</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An interacting natural system including all the component
			organisms together with the abiotic environment and processes
			affecting them.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ecosystem_Sustainability">
		<glossterm>Ecosystem Sustainability</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A concept that promotes the use of natural resources to
			benefit humans while conserving and wisely managing natural
			ecosystems for the future.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Eddy">
		<glossterm>Eddy</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A circular-like flow of a fluid (such as air or water) drawing
			its energy from a flow of much larger scale, and brought about by
			pressure irregularities as in the downwind (lee) side of a solid
			obstacle. For example, wind conditions may be erratic and may eddy
			on the downwind side of large rock outcroppings, buildings,
			etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Edge">
		<glossterm>Edge</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The place where plant communities meet or where successional
			stages or vegetative conditions within plant communities come
			together.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Edge1">
		<glossterm>Edge</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The boundary between two fairly distinct fuel
			types.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Edge_Firing">
		<glossterm>Edge Firing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Method of burning in which fires are set along the edges of an
			area and allowed to spread inward.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Eductor">
		<glossterm>Eductor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A device used to introduce and mix fire chemical into a water
			stream. An eductor is a fitting with three ports, an inlet for water
			flow, an outlet for water flow, and an inlet for fire chemical
			concentrate. The flow of water through the eductor produces a region
			of lower pressure at the fire chemical inlet, drawing the chemical
			into the water stream.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Effective_Windspeed">
		<glossterm>Effective Windspeed</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The midflame windspeed adjusted for the effect of slope on
			fire spread.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ejector">
		<glossterm>Ejector</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A siphon device used to fill an engine's tank when the water
			source is below or beyond the engine's drafting
			capability.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Elapsed_Time">
		<glossterm>Elapsed Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The total time taken to complete any step(s) in fire
			suppression. NOTE: Generally divided chronologically into discovery
			time, report time, getaway time, travel time, attack time, control
			time, mop-up time, and patrol time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="eLearning">
		<glossterm>eLearning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Conceptually represents the optimum integration of modern
			educational methods and professional staff development training with
			state of the art technology. The primary goal is enhancing
			on-the-job performance, motivation, and learning
			performance.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Distance_Learning">
				<linktext>Distance Learning</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Elevation_Loss">
		<glossterm>Elevation Loss</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In hydraulics, the pressure loss caused by raising water
			through hose or pipe to a higher elevation (roughly equal to one psi
			for every two-foot increase in elevation above the pump) (11.3 kPa
			per meter).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emergency">
		<glossterm>Emergency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any incident which requires the response of a fire protection
			organization's attack units and/or support units.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emergency_Firefighter">
		<glossterm>Emergency Firefighter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A person employed as an emergency worker on a forest or
			wildland fire which threatens damage to property under public
			management. Emergency firefighters are hired for the duration of the
			emergency only.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>EFF</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Casual">
				<linktext>Casual</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Casual">
				<linktext>Casual</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emergency_Locator_Transmitter">
		<glossterm>Emergency Locator Transmitter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A radio transmitter attached to the aircraft structure which
			operates from its own power source on 121.5 MHz and 243 MHz. The
			transmitter transmits a distinctive downward swept audio tone for
			homing purposes and is designed to function without human action
			after an accident.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ELT</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emergency_Management_Coordinator_Director">
		<glossterm>Emergency Management Coordinator/Director</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The individual within each political subdivision that has
			coordination responsibility for jurisdictional emergency
			management.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emergency_Medical_Technician_-_Basic">
		<glossterm>Emergency Medical Technician - Basic</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A professional-level provider of emergency medical care who
			has received training equal to or greater than the current DOT
			emergency medical technician training standards, maintaining state
			or equivalent certification in this classification.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>EMTB</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emergency_Medical_Technician_-_Intermediate">
		<glossterm>Emergency Medical Technician - Intermediate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A professional-level provider of emergency medical care that
			has been trained to the basic 1999 EMT level, state certified, and
			has received additional training to start IVs, use more advanced
			airways, and administer certain medications.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>EMTI</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emergency_Medical_Technician_-_Paramedic">
		<glossterm>Emergency Medical Technician - Paramedic</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A professional-level provider of emergency medical care
			trained above the level of EMT-Intermediate to administer drugs,
			intubate, and other advanced life support procedures in a field
			environment, maintaining state certification in this
			classification.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>EMTP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emergency_Operations_Center">
		<glossterm>Emergency Operations Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A pre-designated facility established by an agency or
			jurisdiction to coordinate the overall agency or jurisdictional
			response and support to an emergency.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>EOC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emergency_Operations_Plan">
		<glossterm>Emergency Operations Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The plan that each jurisdiction has and maintains for
			responding to appropriate hazards.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emergency_Response_Provider">
		<glossterm>Emergency Response Provider</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any federal, state, or local emergency public safety, law
			enforcement, emergency responder, emergency medical (including
			hospital emergency facilities), and related personnel, agencies, and
			authorities. It is any organization responding to an emergency, or
			providing mutual aid support to such an organization, whether in the
			field, at the scene of an incident, or operations center.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emergency_Stabilization">
		<glossterm>Emergency Stabilization</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Planned actions to stabilize and prevent unacceptable
			degradation to natural and cultural resource, to minimize threats to
			life or property resulting from the effects of a fire, or to
			repair/replace/construct physical improvements necessary to prevent
			degradation of land or resources.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emission">
		<glossterm>Emission</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A release of combustion gases and aerosols into the
			atmosphere.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emission_Factor">
		<glossterm>Emission Factor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The mass of particulate matter produced per unit mass of fuel
			consumed (pounds per ton, grams per kilogram).</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>EFp</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emission_Rate">
		<glossterm>Emission Rate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The amount, or mass of smoke produced per unit of time. For
			example: Emission Rate = Available Fuel x Burning Rate x Emission
			Factor.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emission_Reduction">
		<glossterm>Emission Reduction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A strategy for controlling smoke from prescribed fires that
			minimizes the amount of smoke output per unit area
			treated.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Emission_Standard">
		<glossterm>Emission Standard</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A general type of standard that limits the mass of a pollutant
			that may be emitted by a source. The most straightforward emissions
			standard is a simple limitation on mass of pollutant per unit time
			(e.g., pounds of pollutant per hour).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Empty_Weight">
		<glossterm>Empty Weight</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Weight of an aircraft/engine including the structure,
			powerplant, all fixed equipment, all fixed ballast, unusable fuel,
			undrainable oil, and total quantity of hydraulic fluid.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Energy_Release_Component">
		<glossterm>Energy Release Component</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The computed total heat release per unit area (British thermal
			units per square foot) within the flaming front at the head of a
			moving fire.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ERC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Engine">
		<glossterm>Engine</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any ground vehicle providing specified levels of pumping,
			water, and hose capacity but with less than the specified level of
			personnel.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Engine_Company">
		<glossterm>Engine Company</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A resource that includes an engine of a specific type. The
			type specifies tank capacity, pump rating, hose capacity and number
			of personnel.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Enhancement_Burn">
		<glossterm>Enhancement Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Entrapment">
		<glossterm>Entrapment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A situation where personnel are unexpectedly caught in a fire
			behavior-related, life-threatening position where planned escape
			routes or safety zones are absent, inadequate, or compromised. An
			entrapment may or may not include deployment of a fire shelter for
			its intended purpose. These situations may or may not result in
			injury. They include "near misses."</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Entrapment_Avoidance">
		<glossterm>Entrapment Avoidance</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A process used to improve the safety of personnel on the
			fireline, which emphasizes tools and tactics available to prevent
			being trapped in a burnover situation. This process includes
			appropriate decision making through risk management, application of
			LCES, use of pre-established trigger points, and recognition of
			suitable escape routes and safety zones.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Envelopment">
		<glossterm>Envelopment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Direct attack with multiple anchor points, that allows for
			multiple points of attack. Generally used as an engine tactic in the
			wildland urban interface.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Environment">
		<glossterm>Environment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The complex surroundings of an item or area of interest, such
			as air, water, natural resources, and their physical conditions
			(temperature, humidity).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Environmental_Lapse_Rate">
		<glossterm>Environmental Lapse Rate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The actual rate of decrease of temperature with
			elevation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Environmental_Specialist">
		<glossterm>Environmental Specialist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible to the planning section chief for
			collecting and analyzing environmental information about the
			incident area, determining environmental restrictions and
			requirements, and providing the information as an input to the
			incident action and to incident personnel as needed.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Episode_Pollution">
		<glossterm>Episode (Pollution)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A condition of poor contaminant dispersion which may result in
			concentrations considered potentially harmful to health or welfare.
			Episodes may also occur during periods of fairly good dispersion if
			the source of air contaminants is extremely large.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Equilibrium_Moisture_Content">
		<glossterm>Equilibrium Moisture Content</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Moisture content that a fuel particle will attain if exposed
			for an infinite period in an environment of specified constant
			temperature and humidity. When a fuel particle reaches equilibrium
			moisture content, net exchange of moisture between it and its
			environment is zero.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>EMC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Equipment_Manager">
		<glossterm>Equipment Manager</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible to the ground support unit leader for
			servicing, repairing, and fueling all apparatus and equipment on the
			incident, for obtaining transportation and scheduling its use, and
			for maintaining records of equipment service and use.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Equipment_Time_Recorder">
		<glossterm>Equipment Time Recorder</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible to the time unit leader for assisting all
			other units at the incident in properly maintaining a daily record
			of equipment use time, maintaining current records for charges and
			credits for fuel, parts, services, and commissary items for all
			equipment, and checking and closing all time record forms before
			demobilization of equipment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Equipment_Use_Fire">
		<glossterm>Equipment Use Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire caused by mechanical equipment other than railroad
			operations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Escape_Route">
		<glossterm>Escape Route</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A preplanned and understood route firefighters take to move to
			a safety zone or other low-risk area. When escape routes deviate
			from a defined physical path, they should be clearly marked
			(flagged).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Escaped_Fire">
		<glossterm>Escaped Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire which has exceeded or is expected to exceed initial
			attack capabilities or prescription.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Estimated_Time_En_Route">
		<glossterm>Estimated Time En Route</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Term used in resource planning/following to estimate time
			spent between points.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ETE</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Estimated_Time_of_Arrival">
		<glossterm>Estimated Time of Arrival</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Term used in resource planning/following to estimate time of
			arrival at a point.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ETA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Estimated_Time_of_Departure">
		<glossterm>Estimated Time of Departure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Term used in resource planning/following to estimate time of
			departure from a point.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ETD</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Evacuation">
		<glossterm>Evacuation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An organized, phased, and supervised withdrawal, dispersal, or
			removal of civilians from dangerous or potentially dangerous areas,
			and their reception and care in safe areas.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Evaluator">
		<glossterm>Evaluator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The individual who is qualified in the position being
			evaluated, or supervises the position being evaluated, having
			responsibility for observing task(s) being performed and documenting
			successful performance for agency certification or re-certification.
			Evaluator responsibilities must remain separate from the individual
			assigned as Trainer/Coach.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Agency_Certification">
				<linktext>Agency Certification</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Re-Certification">
				<linktext>Re-Certification</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Trainer_Coach">
				<linktext>Trainer/Coach</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Evaporation">
		<glossterm>Evaporation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The transformation of a liquid to its gaseous state; heat is
			released by the liquid during this process.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Event">
		<glossterm>Event</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A planned, non-emergency activity. ICS can be used as the
			management system for a wide range of events, e.g., parades,
			concerts or sporting events.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Exempt_Nonexempt">
		<glossterm>Exempt / Nonexempt</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Categories of employees as defined in the Fair Labor Standards
			Act (FLSA), who are either covered or exempted from coverage under
			the ActPay entitlements vary depending on the employee's FLSA
			status.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Exhaust_Primer">
		<glossterm>Exhaust Primer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Device which uses the exhaust gas flow of an engine for
			priming a centrifugal pump.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Expanded_Dispatch">
		<glossterm>Expanded Dispatch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An organization needed to support an incident which expands
			along with the Incident Command System.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Expansion">
		<glossterm>Expansion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ratio of the volume of the foam in its aerated state to
			the original volume of the non-aerated foam solution.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Expert_Witness">
		<glossterm>Expert Witness</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Someone with sufficient skill, knowledge, or experience in a
			given field so as to be capable of drawing inferences or reaching
			conclusions or opinions that an average person would not be
			competent to reach. The expert's opinion testimony should aim the
			judge or jury in their understanding of the fact at
			issue.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Exposure">
		<glossterm>Exposure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Property that may be endangered by a fire burning in another
			structure or by a wildfire.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Aspect">
				<linktext>Aspect</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Exposure1">
		<glossterm>Exposure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Direction in which a slope faces, usually with respect to
			cardinal directions.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Aspect">
				<linktext>Aspect</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Exposure2">
		<glossterm>Exposure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The general surroundings of a site with special reference to
			its openness to winds.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Aspect">
				<linktext>Aspect</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Exposure_Fire">
		<glossterm>Exposure Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Classification for a fire not originating in a building, but
			which ignites building(s). A fire originating in one building and
			spreading to another is classified under the original cause of
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Extend">
		<glossterm>Extend</glossterm>
		<glossdef>To drop retardant in such a way that the load slightly
			overlaps and links a previous drop. "Extend your last
			drop."</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Extended_Attack">
		<glossterm>Extended Attack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Suppression activity for a wildfire that has not been
			contained or controlled by initial attack or contingency forces and
			for which more firefighting resources are arriving, en route, or
			being ordered by the initial attack incident commander.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Extended_Attack_Incident">
		<glossterm>Extended Attack Incident</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A wildland fire that has not been contained or controlled by
			initial attack forces and for which more firefighting resources are
			arriving, en route, or being ordered by the initial attack incident
			commander. Extended attack implies that the complexity level of the
			incident will increase beyond the capabilities of initial attack
			incident command.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Exterior_Fire_Protection">
		<glossterm>Exterior Fire Protection</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The protection of structures from the exterior, with no
			interior access or activity.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="External_Load">
		<glossterm>External Load</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A load that is carried or extends outside of the aircraft
			fuselage.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="External_Payload">
		<glossterm>External Payload</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Maximum external stress load (in pounds) with full fuel and
			pilot in calm air at standard atmospheric temperature.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Extinguishing_Agent">
		<glossterm>Extinguishing Agent</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Substance used to put out a fire by cooling the burning
			material, blocking the supply of oxygen, or chemically inhibiting
			combustion.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Extra_Burning_Period">
		<glossterm>Extra Burning Period</glossterm>
		<glossdef>For any particular fire which is neither contained nor
			controlled, any 24-hour period following the termination of the
			first burning period.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Extreme_Fire_Behavior">
		<glossterm>Extreme Fire Behavior</glossterm>
		<glossdef>"Extreme" implies a level of fire behavior characteristics
			that ordinarily precludes methods of direct control action. One or
			more of the following is usually involved: high rate of spread,
			prolific crowning and/or spotting, presence of fire whirls, strong
			convection column. Predictability is difficult because such fires
			often exercise some degree of influence on their environment and
			behave erratically, sometimes dangerously.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Blowup">
				<linktext>Blowup</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Fire_Storm">
				<linktext>Fire Storm</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Flare-up">
				<linktext>Flare-up</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Eyewitness">
		<glossterm>Eyewitness</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person who sees evidence of criminal activity, actual
			commission of a crime or a criminal fleeing a crime
			scene.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="FIRDAT_Fire_Data_Manipulation_Program">
		<glossterm>FIRDAT</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A routine of FIREFAMILY that combines historical weather
			records with the equations of the NFDRS to produce frequency
			distributions of the NFDRS indexes and components.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Fire Data Manipulation Program</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#FIREFAMILY_Fire_Data_Program">
				<linktext>FIREFAMILY (Fire Data Program)</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="FIRECAST">
		<glossterm>FIRECAST</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Set of computerized FIREMODELS run during fire season at the
			operations coordination center on preselected locations to indicate
			possible fire spread from those points for that date.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="FIREFAMILY_Fire_Data_Program">
		<glossterm>FIREFAMILY (Fire Data Program)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A computer program that uses historical weather and fire data
			for fire planning. Its three major routines are FIRDAT, SEASON, and
			FIRINF.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="FIREMODEL">
		<glossterm>FIREMODEL</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Computer program which with specified information (fuel,
			weather, topography) predicts an hourly rate of spread from a point
			of origin.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="FIRESCOPE">
		<glossterm>FIRESCOPE</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Firefighting Resources of California Organized for Potential
			Emergencies. A multi-agency coordination system designed to improve
			the capabilities of California's wildland fire protection agencies.
			Its purpose is to provide more efficient resources allocation and
			utilization, particularly in multiple or large fire situations
			during critical burning conditions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Facilities_Unit">
		<glossterm>Facilities Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Functional unit within the logistics section that provides the
			layout, activation, and management of all incident facilities. These
			facilities may include the incident base, feeding areas, sleeping
			areas, sanitary facilities, etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Facilities_Unit_Leader">
		<glossterm>Facilities Unit Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the Facilities
			Unit. Reports to the Service Branch Director or Logistics Section
			Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FACL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Facilities_Unit">
				<linktext>Facilities Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Facility_Maintenance_Specialist">
		<glossterm>Facility Maintenance Specialist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible to the base / camp manager for general
			maintenance of the base or camp, including provision of sleeping and
			sanitation facilities, lighting and electricity, and camp
			cleanliness.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fahrenheit">
		<glossterm>Fahrenheit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A temperature scale on which 320 F denotes the temperature of
			melting ice, and 2120 F the temperature of boiling water, both under
			standard atmospheric pressure.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Faller">
		<glossterm>Faller</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A person who fells trees. Also called sawyer, and
			cutter.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="False_Alarm">
		<glossterm>False Alarm</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A reported smoke or fire requiring no suppression; for
			example, brush burning under control, mill smoke, false smoke,
			etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Federal_Aviation_Regulation">
		<glossterm>Federal Aviation Regulation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Refers to the regulations governing all aviation activities of
			civil aircraft within the United States and its
			territories.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FAR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Federal_Land_Policy_and_Management_Act">
		<glossterm>Federal Land Policy and Management Act</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (Public Law
			94-570, 90 Stat. 2743, 43 USC 1701).</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FLPMA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Female_Coupling">
		<glossterm>Female Coupling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Coupling made to receive a male coupling of the same thread,
			pitch and/or diameter.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Field_Observer">
		<glossterm>Field Observer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for collecting and reporting
			situation information for an incident through personal observations
			and interviews and reports to the Situation Unit Leader.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FOBS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Situation_Unit">
				<linktext>Situation Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Field_Test">
		<glossterm>Field Test</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A job-related test of work capacity designed for those with
			moderately strenuous duties. This test consists a two-mile hike with
			a 25-pound pack. A time of 30 minutes, the passing score for this
			test, approximates an aerobic fitness score of 40.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Work_Capacity_Test">
				<linktext>Work Capacity Test</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fill_Tank">
		<glossterm>Fill Tank</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Large, portable tank from which helitankers can
			hoverfill.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Filling">
		<glossterm>Filling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An increase in the central pressure of a low.
			Counter-clockwise wind flow around the low usually decreases as
			filling occurs.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Final_Approach">
		<glossterm>Final Approach</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Flight path in the direction of the landing along the extended
			runway center line from the base leg to the runway.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Final_Evaluator">
		<glossterm>Final Evaluator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The individual responsible for completing the position task
			book's verification statement once all tasks in the position task
			book have been completed and signed off. Only the evaluator on the
			final position performance assignment (the assignment in which all
			remaining tasks have been evaluated and signed off) will complete
			the verification statement recommending certification.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Position_Performance_Assignment">
				<linktext>Position Performance Assignment</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Position_Task_Book">
				<linktext>Position Task Book</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Final_Run">
		<glossterm>Final Run</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An air tanker is "on final" when it is on line with the target
			and intends to make the drop on that pass; also applies to cargo
			dropping.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Finance_Administration_Section">
		<glossterm>Finance/Administration Section</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The section responsible for all administrative and financial
			considerations on an incident.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Compensation_Claims_Unit">
				<linktext>Compensation/Claims Unit</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Cost_Unit">
				<linktext>Cost Unit</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Procurement_Unit">
				<linktext>Procurement Unit</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Time_Unit">
				<linktext>Time Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Finance_Administration_Section_Chief">
		<glossterm>Finance/Administration Section Chief</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the
			Finance/Administration Section. Reports to the Incident Commander
			and is a member of the General Staff. This position may have one or
			more deputies assigned.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FSC1</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FSC2</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Finance_Administration_Section">
				<linktext>Finance/Administration Section</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fine_Fuel_Moisture">
		<glossterm>Fine Fuel Moisture</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The probable moisture content of fast-drying fuels which have
			a timelag constant of 1 hour or less; such as, grass, leaves, ferns,
			tree moss, pine needles, and small twigs (0-1/4").</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fine_Fuels">
		<glossterm>Fine Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fast-drying dead or live fuels, generally characterized by a
			comparatively high surface area-to-volume ratio, which are less than
			1/4-inch in diameter and have a timelag of one hour or less. These
			fuels (grass, leaves, needles, etc.) ignite readily and are consumed
			rapidly by fire when dry.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Flash_Fuels">
				<linktext>Flash Fuels</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fingers_of_a_Fire">
		<glossterm>Fingers of a Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The long narrow extensions of a fire projecting from the main
			body.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire">
		<glossterm>Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Rapid oxidation, usually with the evolution of heat and light;
			heat fuel, oxygen and interaction of the three.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire-Day">
		<glossterm>Fire-Day</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In FireFamily Plus, a day with both a weather observation and
			at least one fire.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Large_Fire-Day">
				<linktext>Large Fire-Day</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Multiple_Fire-Day">
				<linktext>Multiple Fire-Day</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire-flood_Cycle">
		<glossterm>Fire-flood Cycle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The greatly increased rate of water run off and soil movement
			from steep slopes that may follow removal of the vegetative cover by
			burning.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire-proofing">
		<glossterm>Fire-proofing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Removal or treatment of fuels to reduce the danger of fires
			igniting or spreading. (E.g., fire-proofing roadsides, campsites,
			structural timber.) Protection is relative, not absolute.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="FireCode">
		<glossterm>FireCode</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Unique code (alpha-numeric) assigned to wildland fires. One
			FireCode project number per fire is assigned for use by all five
			federal wildland firefighting agencies. Fire codes may be any
			combination of four-digit alpha-numeric characters. Each agency's
			finance community incorporates the FireCode project number into the
			accounting code.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="FireFamily_Plus">
		<glossterm>FireFamily Plus</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A software application that provides summaries of fire
			weather/danger climatology and occurrence for one or more weather
			stations extracted from NIFMID.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Adapted_Community">
		<glossterm>Fire Adapted Community</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A human community consisting of informed and prepared citizens
			collaboratively planning and taking action to safely co-exist with
			wildland fire.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FAC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Agency">
		<glossterm>Fire Agency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Official group or organization compelled and authorized under
			statutes or law to control fires within a designated area or upon
			designated lands.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Protecting_Agency">
				<linktext>Protecting Agency</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Responsible_Fire_Agency">
				<linktext>Responsible Fire Agency</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Analysis">
		<glossterm>Fire Analysis</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Review of fire management actions taken on a specific fire,
			group of fires, or fire season in order to identify reasons for both
			effective and ineffective actions, and to recommend or prescribe
			ways and means of doing a more efficient job. Also called hot line
			review.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Behavior">
		<glossterm>Fire Behavior</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The manner in which a fire reacts to the influences of fuel,
			weather, and topography.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Behavior_Analyst">
		<glossterm>Fire Behavior Analyst</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible to the planning section chief for
			establishing a weather data collection system and for developing
			fire behavior predictions based on fire history, fuel, weather, and
			topography.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Behavior_Forecast">
		<glossterm>Fire Behavior Forecast</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Prediction of probable fire behavior, usually prepared by a
			fire behavior analyst, in support of fire suppression or prescribed
			burning operations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Behavior_Prediction_Model">
		<glossterm>Fire Behavior Prediction Model</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A set of mathematical equations that can be used to predict
			certain aspects of fire behavior when provided with an assessment of
			fuel and environmental conditions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Behavior_Prediction_System">
		<glossterm>Fire Behavior Prediction System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A system that uses a set of mathematical equations to predict
			certain aspects of fire behavior in wildland fuels when provided
			with data on fuel and environmental conditions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Benefits">
		<glossterm>Fire Benefits</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire effects with positive monetary, social, or emotional
			value or that contribute, through changes in the resource base, to
			the attainment of organizational goals.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Bug">
		<glossterm>Fire Bug</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Arsonist, especially a repetitive firesetter.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Business">
		<glossterm>Fire Business</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The characterization of fire occurrence in an area, described
			in terms of total number of fires and acres per year; and number of
			fires by time, size, cause, fire-day, large fire-day, and multiple
			fire-day.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Business_Thresholds">
		<glossterm>Fire Business Thresholds</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Values of one or more fire weather/fire danger indexes that
			have been statistically related to occurrence of fires (fire
			business). Generally the threshold is a value, or range of values
			where historical fire activity has significantly increased or
			decreased.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Cache">
		<glossterm>Fire Cache</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A supply of fire tools and equipment assembled in planned
			quantities or standard units at a strategic point for exclusive use
			in fire suppression.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Cause">
		<glossterm>Fire Cause</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Agency or circumstance which started a fire or set the stage
			for its occurrence; source of a fire’s ignition. For statistical
			purposes fires are grouped into broad cause classes. The nine
			general causes used in the U.S. are lightning, campfire, smoking,
			debris burning, incendiary, machine use (equipment), railroad,
			children, and miscellaneous.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Cause_Class">
		<glossterm>Fire Cause Class</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any class into which wildland fires are grouped according to
			their origin.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Climate">
		<glossterm>Fire Climate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Composite pattern of weather elements over time that affect
			fire behavior in a given region.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Climax">
		<glossterm>Fire Climax</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Plant community maintained by periodic fires.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Concentration_Complex">
		<glossterm>Fire Concentration</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Generally, a situation in which numerous fires are burning in
			a locality.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Fire Complex</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Concentration_Complex1">
		<glossterm>Fire Concentration</glossterm>
		<glossdef>More specifically, the number of fires per unit area or
			locality for a given period, generally a year.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Fire Complex</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Crew">
		<glossterm>Fire Crew</glossterm>
		<glossdef>General term for two or more firefighters organized to work as
			a unit.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Crew_Work_Formation">
		<glossterm>Fire Crew Work Formation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Standard crew arrangement used for fireline construction in
			direct or indirect attack; consists of line locator, line cutters,
			rakers, torch operators, and mopup crew.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Damage">
		<glossterm>Fire Damage</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Detrimental fire effects expressed in monetary or other units,
			including the unfavorable effects of fire-induced changes in the
			resource base on the attainment of organizational goals.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Damage_Appraisal">
		<glossterm>Fire Damage Appraisal</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Method of determining financial or other losses resulting from
			a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Danger">
		<glossterm>Fire Danger</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Sum of constant danger and variable danger factors affecting
			the inception, spread, and resistance to control, and subsequent
			fire damage; often expressed as an index.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Danger_Continuum">
		<glossterm>Fire Danger Continuum</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The range of possible values for a fire danger index or
			component, given a set of NFDRS parameters and weather
			input.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Danger_Index">
		<glossterm>Fire Danger Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A relative number indicating the severity of wildland fire
			danger as determined from burning conditions and other variable
			factors of fire danger.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Danger_Rating">
		<glossterm>Fire Danger Rating</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire management system that integrates the effects of
			selected fire danger factors into one or more qualitative or
			numerical indices of current protection needs.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Danger_Rating_Area">
		<glossterm>Fire Danger Rating Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A geographic area of relatively homogenous climate, fuels and
			topography, tens of thousands of acres in size, within which the
			fire danger can be assumed to be uniform. The basic on-the-ground
			unit for which unique fire management decisions are made based on
			fire danger ratings. Weather is represented by one or more NFDRS
			weather stations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Danger_Rating_Operating_Plan">
		<glossterm>Fire Danger Rating Operating Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A guide to collection, communication, and application of fire
			danger ratings at the local level.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Danger_Rating_PocketCard_for_Firefighter_Safety">
		<glossterm>Fire Danger Rating PocketCard for Firefighter
			Safety</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A communication aid designed to help firefighters develop an
			awareness of the local fire situation by providing a visual
			reference to fire danger rating.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Danger_Rating_System">
		<glossterm>Fire Danger Rating System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The complete program necessary to produce and apply fire
			danger ratings, including data collection, data processing, fire
			danger modeling, communications, and data storage.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#National_Fire_Danger_Rating_System">
				<linktext>National Fire Danger Rating System</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Day">
		<glossterm>Fire Day</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Standard 24-hour period beginning at 1000 hours, during which
			most wildfires undergo a predictable speeding up and slowing down of
			intensity, depending primarily on the influence of weather and fuel
			factors.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Death">
		<glossterm>Fire Death</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire casualty which is fatal or becomes fatal within one year
			of the fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Dependent">
		<glossterm>Fire Dependent</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Plants and vegetation communities which have evolved
			adaptations such as a reliance on fire as a disturbance agent,
			protection as a species against the effects of wildland fire, or
			even a strengthening or enhancement by it.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Detection">
		<glossterm>Fire Detection</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Act or system of discovering and locating fires.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Detection" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Detection</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Discovery">
		<glossterm>Fire Discovery</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The act of determining that a fire exists; does not include
			determining its location.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_District">
		<glossterm>Fire District</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A rural or suburban fire organization, usually tax supported,
			that maintains fire companies and apparatus. It is also called a
			fire protection district.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Duty">
		<glossterm>Fire Duty</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Actual physical engagement in firefighting service as
			distinguished from staff work at headquarters or maintenance
			division; work at an individual fire done by an individual
			firefighter or by a company.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Ecology">
		<glossterm>Fire Ecology</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The study of the effects of fire on living organisms and their
			environment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Edge">
		<glossterm>Fire Edge</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The boundary of a fire at a given moment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Education">
		<glossterm>Fire Education</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Activities to change behaviors and attitudes about fire
			ecology, wildland fire and the role of fire in natural resource
			management. Defines the purposes for actions that provide
			information about and improve understanding of wildland
			fire.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Prevention">
				<linktext>Prevention</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Prevention1">
				<linktext>Prevention</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Effects">
		<glossterm>Fire Effects</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The physical, biological, and ecological impacts of fire on
			the environment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Environment">
		<glossterm>Fire Environment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The surrounding conditions, influences, and modifying forces
			of topography, fuel, and weather that determine fire
			behavior.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Frequency">
		<glossterm>Fire Frequency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A general term referring to the recurrence of fire in a given
			area over time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Front">
		<glossterm>Fire Front</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The part of a fire within which continuous flaming combustion
			is taking place. Unless otherwise specified, the fire front is
			assumed to be the leading edge of the fire perimeter. In ground
			fires, the fire front may be mainly smoldering
			combustion.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Guard">
		<glossterm>Fire Guard</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A general term for a firefighter, lookout, patrol, prevention
			guard, or other person directly employed for prevention and/or
			detection and suppression of fires.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Hazard">
		<glossterm>Fire Hazard</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fuel complex, defined by volume, type condition,
			arrangement, and location, that determines the degree of ease of
			ignition and of resistance to control.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Hazard_Index">
		<glossterm>Fire Hazard Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A numerical rating for specific fuel types, indicating the
			relative probability of fires starting and spreading, and the
			probable degree of resistance to control; similar to burning index,
			but without effects of wind speed.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Hazardous_Areas">
		<glossterm>Fire Hazardous Areas</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Those wildland areas where the combination of vegetation,
			topography, weather, and the threat of fire to life and property
			create difficult and dangerous problems.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Information_Retrieval_and_Evaluation_System">
		<glossterm>Fire Information Retrieval and Evaluation System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A personal computer (PC) program that merges fire and
			weather/index files, and allows plotting and analysis of fire
			occurrence and fire danger.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FIRES</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Injury">
		<glossterm>Fire Injury</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Injury suffered as the result of a fire that requires (or
			should require) treatment by a practitioner of medicine within one
			year of the fire, regardless of whether treatment was actually
			received.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Inspector">
		<glossterm>Fire Inspector</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire prevention specialist or arson investigator.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Interval">
		<glossterm>Fire Interval</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The number of years between two successive fire events for a
			given area; also referred to as fire-free interval or fire-return
			interval.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Fire Return Interval</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Investigation">
		<glossterm>Fire Investigation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The process of determining the ignition source, materials
			first ignited, ignition factors, and party responsible for a
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Lane">
		<glossterm>Fire Lane</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Cleared path wide enough to permit single-lane vehicular
			access in a remote area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Load">
		<glossterm>Fire Load</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The number and size of fires historically experienced on a
			given unit over a given period (usually one day) at a given index of
			fire danger.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Load_Index">
		<glossterm>Fire Load Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Numerical rating of the maximum effort required to contain all
			probable fires occurring within a rating area during the rating
			period.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FLI</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Management">
		<glossterm>Fire Management</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Activities required for the protection of burnable wildland
			values from fire and the use of prescribed fire to meet land
			management objectives.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Management_Area">
		<glossterm>Fire Management Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>One or more parcels of land having a common set of fire
			management objectives.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Management_Improvements">
		<glossterm>Fire Management Improvements</glossterm>
		<glossdef>All structures built and used primarily for fire management,
			e.g. lookout towers, lookout cabins, telephone lines, and also
			firebreaks, fuelbreaks, and roads to lookouts.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Management_Objective">
		<glossterm>Fire Management Objective</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Planned, measurable result desired from fire protection and
			use based on land management goals and objectives.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Management_Plan">
		<glossterm>Fire Management Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A plan which identifies and integrates all wildland fire
			management and related activities within the context of approved
			land/resource management plans. It defines a program to manage
			wildland fires (wildfire, prescribed fire, and wildland fire use).
			The plan is supplemented by operational plans, including but not
			limited to preparedness plans, preplanned dispatch plans, and
			prevention plans. Fire Management Plans assure that wildland fire
			management goals and components are coordinated.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FMP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Management_Unit">
		<glossterm>Fire Management Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A land management area definable by objectives, management
			constraints, topographic features, access, values to be protected,
			political boundaries, fuel types, major fire regime groups, etc.
			that set it apart from the characteristics of an adjacent FMU. The
			FMU may have dominant management objectives and pre-selected
			strategies assigned to accomplish these objectives.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FMU</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Pack">
		<glossterm>Fire Pack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A one-person unit of fire tools, equipment, and supplies
			prepared in advance for carrying on the back.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Perimeter">
		<glossterm>Fire Perimeter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The entire outer edge or boundary of a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Planning">
		<glossterm>Fire Planning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Systematic technological and administrative management process
			of designing organization, facilities, and procedures, including
			fire use, to protect wildland from fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Planning_Unit">
		<glossterm>Fire Planning Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The geographic scope of the landscape defined for the fire
			management analysis. A Fire Planning Unit consists of one or more
			Fire Management Units. FPUs may relate to a single administrative
			unit, a sub-unit, or any combination of units or sub-units. FPUs are
			scalable and may be contiguous or non-contiguous. FPUs are not
			predefined by agency administrative unit boundaries, and may relate
			to one or more agencies. They may be described spatially.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FPU</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Plotting_Map">
		<glossterm>Fire Plotting Map</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A map used for determining the location of fires, commonly
			provided with an azimuth circle to facilitate location by cross
			bearings.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Plow">
		<glossterm>Fire Plow</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A heavy duty plowshare or disc plow usually pulled by a
			tractor to construct a fireline.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Potential">
		<glossterm>Fire Potential</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The likelihood of a wildland fire event measured in terms of
			anticipated occurrence of fire(s) and management's capability to
			respond. Fire potential is influenced by a sum of factors that
			includes fuel conditions (fuel dryness and/or other inputs),
			ignition triggers, significant weather triggers, and resource
			capability.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Ignition_Trigger">
				<linktext>Ignition Trigger</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Resource_Capability">
				<linktext>Resource Capability</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Significant_Weather_Trigger">
				<linktext>Significant Weather Trigger</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Presuppression">
		<glossterm>Fire Presuppression</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Activities undertaken in advance of fire occurrence to help
			ensure more effective fire suppression. Activities includes overall
			planning, recruitment and training of fire personnel, procurement
			and maintenance of firefighting equipment and supplies, fuel
			treatment and creating, maintaining, and improving a system of
			fuelbreaks, roads, water sources, and control lines.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Prevention">
		<glossterm>Fire Prevention</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Activities such as public education, community outreach, law
			enforcement, engineering, and reduction of fuel hazards that are
			intended to reduce the incidence of unwanted human-caused wildfires
			and the risks they pose to life, property or resources.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Progress_Map">
		<glossterm>Fire Progress Map</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A map maintained on a large fire to show at given times the
			location of the fire, deployment of suppression forces, and progress
			of suppression.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Progression">
		<glossterm>Fire Progression</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The progress of the fire outwards from the point of
			origin.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Qualifications">
		<glossterm>Fire Qualifications</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Computerized interagency summary of fire suppression
			qualifications of listed personnel. Available information includes
			fire training record, fire experience record, and physical fitness
			testing score for each individual.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Regime">
		<glossterm>Fire Regime</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Description of the patterns of fire occurrences, frequency,
			size, severity, and sometimes vegetation and fire effects as well,
			in a given area or ecosystem. A fire regime is a generalization
			based on fire histories at individual sites. Fire regimes can often
			be described as cycles because some parts of the histories usually
			get repeated, and the repetitions can be counted and measured, such
			as fire return interval.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire_Regime_Groups">
				<linktext>Fire Regime Groups</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Regime_Current_Condition_Class">
		<glossterm>Fire Regime Current Condition Class</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A qualitative measure classified into three classes describing
			the relative degree of departure from historical fire regimes,
			possibly resulting in alterations of key ecosystem components such
			as species composition, structural stage, stand age, canopy closure,
			and fuel loadings.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Condition_Class" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Condition Class</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Regime_Groups">
		<glossterm>Fire Regime Groups</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A classification of fire regimes into a discrete number of
			categories based on frequency and severity. The national,
			coarse-scale classification of fire regime groups commonly used
			includes five groups: I - frequent (0-35 years), low severity; II -
			frequent (0-35 years), stand replacement severity; III - 35-100+
			years, mixed severity; IV - 35-100+ years, stand replacement
			severity; and V - 200+ years, stand replacement severity.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire_Regime">
				<linktext>Fire Regime</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Report">
		<glossterm>Fire Report</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An official record of a fire, generally including information
			on cause, location, action taken, damage, costs, etc., from start of
			the fire until completion of suppression action. These reports vary
			in form and detail from agency to agency.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Resistant_Tree">
		<glossterm>Fire Resistant Tree</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A species with compact, resin-free, thick corky bark and less
			flammable foliage that has a relatively lower probability of being
			killed or scarred by a fire than a fire sensitive tree.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire_Sensitive_Tree">
				<linktext>Fire Sensitive Tree</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Resources">
		<glossterm>Fire Resources</glossterm>
		<glossdef>All personnel and equipment available or potentially available
			for assignment to incidents.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Retardant">
		<glossterm>Fire Retardant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any substance except plain water that by chemical or physical
			action reduces flammability of fuels or slows their rate of
			combustion.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Risk">
		<glossterm>Fire Risk</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The chance of fire starting, as determined by the presence and
			activity of causative agents.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Risk1">
		<glossterm>Fire Risk</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A causative agent.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Risk2">
		<glossterm>Fire Risk</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A number related to the potential number of firebrands to
			which a given area will be exposed during the rating day (National
			Fire Danger Rating System).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Scar">
		<glossterm>Fire Scar</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A healing or healed injury or wound to woody vegetation,
			caused or accentuated by a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Scar1">
		<glossterm>Fire Scar</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The mark left on a landscape by fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Scar_Analysis">
		<glossterm>Fire Scar Analysis</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Analysis of one or more fire scars to determine individual
			tree fire frequency or mean fire intervals for specified
			areas.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Season">
		<glossterm>Fire Season</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Period(s) of the year during which wildland fires are likely
			to occur, spread, and affect resources values sufficient to warrant
			organized fire management activities.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Season1">
		<glossterm>Fire Season</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A legally enacted time during which burning activities are
			regulated by federal, state or local authority.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Sensitive_Tree">
		<glossterm>Fire Sensitive Tree</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A species with thin bark or highly flammable foliage that has
			a relatively greater probability of being killed or scarred by a
			fire.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire_Resistant_Tree">
				<linktext>Fire Resistant Tree</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Service">
		<glossterm>Fire Service</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The organized fire protection service; its members,
			individually and collectively; allied organizations assisting
			protection agencies.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Severity">
		<glossterm>Fire Severity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Degree to which a site has been altered or disrupted by fire;
			loosely, a product of fire intensity and residence time.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Severity</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Burn_Severity">
				<linktext>Burn Severity</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Shelter">
		<glossterm>Fire Shelter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An aluminized tent offering protection by means of reflecting
			radiant heat and providing a volume of breathable air in a fire
			entrapment situation. Fire shelters should only be used in life
			threatening situations, as a last resort.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Shelter_Deployment">
		<glossterm>Fire Shelter Deployment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The removing of a fire shelter from its case and using it as
			protection against fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Shovel">
		<glossterm>Fire Shovel</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Type of shovel specifically designed for use in constructing a
			fireline; has a tapered blade with both edges sharpened for
			scraping, digging, grubbing, cutting, and throwing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Simulator">
		<glossterm>Fire Simulator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Training device that imposes simulated fire and smoke on a
			landscape image, for the purpose of instructing fire suppression
			personnel in different fire situations and fire suppression
			techniques.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Spread_Model">
		<glossterm>Fire Spread Model</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A set of physics and empirical equations that form a
			mathematical representation of the behavior of fire in uniform
			wildland fuels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Storm">
		<glossterm>Fire Storm</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Violent convection caused by a large continuous area of
			intense fire. Often characterized by destructively violent surface
			indrafts, near and beyond the perimeter, and sometimes by
			tornado-like whirls.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Blowup">
				<linktext>Blowup</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Extreme_Fire_Behavior">
				<linktext>Extreme Fire Behavior</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Flare-up">
				<linktext>Flare-up</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Suppressant">
		<glossterm>Fire Suppressant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any agent used to extinguish the flaming and glowing phases of
			combustion by direct application to the burning fuel.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Suppression">
		<glossterm>Fire Suppression</glossterm>
		<glossdef>All work and activities connected with control and
			fire-extinguishing operations, beginning with discovery and
			continuing until the fire is completely extinguished.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Suppression_Organization">
		<glossterm>Fire Suppression Organization</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The personnel and equipment collectively assigned to the
			suppression of a specific fire or group of fires.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Suppression_Organization1">
		<glossterm>Fire Suppression Organization</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The personnel responsible for fire suppression within a
			specified area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Suppression_Organization2">
		<glossterm>Fire Suppression Organization</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The management structure, usually shown in the form of an
			organization chart of the persons and groups having specific
			responsibilities in fire suppression.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Swatter">
		<glossterm>Fire Swatter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire tool that consists of a thick, flat piece of rubber on
			a long handle used to drag over or smother out flames of grass
			fires.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Flapper">
				<linktext>Flapper</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Tool_Cache">
		<glossterm>Fire Tool Cache</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A supply of fire tools and equipment assembled in planned
			quantities or standard units at a strategic point for exclusive use
			in wildland operations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Trap">
		<glossterm>Fire Trap</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An accumulation of highly combustible material, rendering
			firefighting dangerous.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Trap1">
		<glossterm>Fire Trap</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any situation in which it is highly dangerous to fight
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Treatment">
		<glossterm>Fire Treatment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The use of fire to accomplish a specified
			objective.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Triangle">
		<glossterm>Fire Triangle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Instructional aid in which the sides of a triangle are used to
			represent the three factors (oxygen, heat, fuel) necessary for
			combustion and flame production; removal of any of the three factors
			causes flame production to cease.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Weather">
		<glossterm>Fire Weather</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Weather conditions which influence fire ignition, behavior,
			and suppression.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Weather_Forecast">
		<glossterm>Fire Weather Forecast</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A weather prediction specially prepared for use in wildland
			fire operations and prescribed fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Weather_Index">
		<glossterm>Fire Weather Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A numerical rating in the Canadian fire danger rating system,
			based on meteorological measurements of fire intensity in a standard
			fuel type. (The standard fuel type is representative of jack pine
			and lodgepole pine.) The FWI is comprised of three fuel moisture
			codes, covering classes of forest fuel of different drying rates,
			and two indices that represent rate of spread and the amount of
			available fuel.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FWI</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Weather_Station">
		<glossterm>Fire Weather Station</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A meteorological station specially equipped to measure weather
			elements that have an important effect on fire behavior.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Weather_Watch">
		<glossterm>Fire Weather Watch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A Fire Weather Watch is issued to advise of conditions which
			could result in extensive wildland fire occurrence or extreme fire
			behavior, which are expected to develop in the next 12 to 48 hours,
			but not more than 72 hours. In cases of dry lightning, a Fire
			Weather Watch may be issued for the next 12 hours.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Red_Flag_Warning">
				<linktext>Red Flag Warning</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fire_Whirl">
		<glossterm>Fire Whirl</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Spinning vortex column of ascending hot air and gases rising
			from a fire and carrying aloft smoke, debris, and flame. Fire whirls
			range in size from less than one foot to over 500 feet in diameter.
			Large fire whirls have the intensity of a small tornado.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Firebase">
		<glossterm>Firebase</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A computerized program utilized to analyze the fire workload
			and project the organization to adequately manage the workload for a
			given response area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Firebrand">
		<glossterm>Firebrand</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any source of heat, natural or human made, capable of igniting
			wildland fuels. Flaming or glowing fuel particles that can be
			carried naturally by wind, convection currents, or by gravity into
			unburned fuels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Firebreak">
		<glossterm>Firebreak</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A natural or constructed barrier used to stop or check fires
			that may occur, or to provide a control line from which to
			work.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Firefighter">
		<glossterm>Firefighter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person whose principal function is fire
			suppression.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Firefighting_Forces">
		<glossterm>Firefighting Forces</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Qualified firefighters, together with their equipment and
			material, used to suppress wildland fires.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Firefighting_Technology_Implementation_Program">
		<glossterm>Firefighting Technology Implementation Program</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A computer program through which the technology of FIRESCOPE
			is transferred to areas outside southern California, where complex,
			multi-agency fires and other incidents commonly occur.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FIRETIP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Firefinder_Map">
		<glossterm>Firefinder Map</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A map, generally mounted on a wood or metal base, that is
			provided with an azimuth circle at the center of which is pivoted an
			alidade, and forms part of an Osborne Firefinder.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Alidade">
				<linktext>Alidade</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fireground">
		<glossterm>Fireground</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Operational area on which firefighters combat a
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Firelamp_Fire_and_Land_Management_Planning">
		<glossterm>Firelamp</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Computerized multi-resource model that simulates the effects
			that naturally caused prescribed fires have on the future production
			of natural resources such as timber, forage, wildlife, recreation,
			and water.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Fire and Land Management Planning</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fireline">
		<glossterm>Fireline</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The part of a containment or control line that is scraped or
			dug to mineral soil.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fireline_Explosives">
		<glossterm>Fireline Explosives</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Specially developed coils containing explosive powder that are
			detonated to create a fireline through ground fuels.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FLE</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fireline_Intensity">
		<glossterm>Fireline Intensity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The product of the available heat of combustion per unit of
			ground and the rate of spread of the fire, interpreted as the heat
			released per unit of time for each unit length of fire edge. The
			primary unit is Btu per second per foot (Btu/sec/ft) of fire
			front.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fireline_Intensity1">
		<glossterm>Fireline Intensity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The rate of heat release per unit time per unit length of fire
			front. Numerically, it is the product of the heat yield, the
			quantity of fuel consumed in the fire front, and the rate of
			spread.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Firesetter">
		<glossterm>Firesetter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person who starts a fire, usually deliberately and
			maliciously.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Firesetting">
		<glossterm>Firesetting</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Starting a fire, usually deliberately and
			maliciously.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fireside_Intensity">
		<glossterm>Fireside Intensity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Firing_Out">
		<glossterm>Firing Out</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The act of setting fire to unburned fuels located between the
			control line and main fire in burning out operations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Firing_Technique">
		<glossterm>Firing Technique</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any method or pattern of igniting a wildland area to consume
			the fuel in a prescribed pattern. E.g., heading or backing fire,
			spot fire, strip-head fire, and ring fire.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Ignition_Pattern">
				<linktext>Ignition Pattern</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="First-in">
		<glossterm>First-in</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Firefighters initially attacking a fire, usually the first to
			arrive at the fire scene.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="First_Order_Fire_Effects">
		<glossterm>First Order Fire Effects</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The effects that concern the direct or immediate consequences
			of fire, such as biomass consumption, crown scorch, bole damage, and
			smoke production. First order effects form an important basis for
			predicting secondary effects such as tree regeneration, plant
			succession, and changes in site productivity, but these involve
			interaction with many other non-fire variables.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FOFE</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Second_Order_Fire_Effects">
				<linktext>Second Order Fire Effects</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fix">
		<glossterm>Fix</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Geographical position determined by visual reference to the
			surface, by reference to one or more radio navigational aids, by
			celestial plotting, or by any other navigational device.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fixed-point_Detection">
		<glossterm>Fixed-point Detection</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Detection of fires from lookout towers or other semi-permanent
			locations as distinguished from roving ground patrols or aerial
			detection.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fixed_Tank">
		<glossterm>Fixed Tank</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A device mounted inside or directly underneath an aircraft
			which can contain water or retardant for dropping onto a
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flame">
		<glossterm>Flame</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A mass of gas undergoing rapid combustion, generally
			accompanied by evolution of sensible heat and
			incandescence.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flame1">
		<glossterm>Flame</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Light given off by burning gasses during the combustion
			process.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flame_Angle">
		<glossterm>Flame Angle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Angle between the flame at the leading edge of the fire front
			and the ground surface, expressed in degrees.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flame_Depth">
		<glossterm>Flame Depth</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The depth of the fire front.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flame_Height">
		<glossterm>Flame Height</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The average maximum vertical extension of flames at the
			leading edge of the fire front. Occasional flashes that rise above
			the general level of flames are not considered. This distance is
			less than the flame length if flames are tilted due to wind or
			slope.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flame_Length">
		<glossterm>Flame Length</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The distance between the flame tip and the midpoint of the
			flame depth at the base of the flame (generally the ground surface),
			an indicator of fire intensity.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flame_Thrower">
		<glossterm>Flame Thrower</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Device for throwing a stream of flaming liquid, used to
			facilitate rapid ignition during burn out operations on a wildfire
			or during a prescribed fire operation.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Terra_Torch" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Terra Torch ®</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Backfire_Torch">
				<linktext>Backfire Torch</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Drip_Torch">
				<linktext>Drip Torch</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flaming_Combustion_Phase">
		<glossterm>Flaming Combustion Phase</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Luminous oxidation of gases evolved from the rapid
			decomposition of fuel. This phase follows the pre-ignition phase and
			precedes the smoldering combustion phase, which has a much slower
			combustion rate. Water vapor, soot, and tar comprise the visible
			smoke. Relatively efficient combustion produces minimal soot and
			tar, resulting in white smoke; high moisture content also produces
			white smoke.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flaming_Front">
		<glossterm>Flaming Front</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That zone of a moving fire where the combustion is primarily
			flaming. Behind this flaming zone combustion is primarily glowing or
			involves the burning out of larger fuels (greater than about 3
			inches in diameter). Light fuels typically have a shallow flaming
			front, whereas heavy fuels have a deeper front.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire_Front">
				<linktext>Fire Front</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flaming_Phase">
		<glossterm>Flaming Phase</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That phase of a fire where the fuel is ignited and consumed by
			flaming combustion.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flammability">
		<glossterm>Flammability</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The relative ease with which fuels ignite and burn regardless
			of the quantity of the fuels. Preferred to
			"inflammability."</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flammable">
		<glossterm>Flammable</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Easily ignitable and capable of burning and producing
			flames.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Nonflammable">
				<linktext>Nonflammable</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flammable_liquid">
		<glossterm>Flammable liquid</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A liquid generally with a flash point below 140F (60C) and a
			vapor pressure that does not exceed 40 PSI at 100F
			(37.8C).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flank_Fire">
		<glossterm>Flank Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A firing technique consisting of treating an area with lines
			of fire set into the wind which burn outward at right angles to the
			wind.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Lateral_Fire" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Lateral Fire</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flanking_Fire_Suppression">
		<glossterm>Flanking Fire Suppression</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Attacking a fire by working along the flanks either
			simultaneously or successively from a less active or anchor point
			and endeavoring to connect two lines at the head.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Flanking Action</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flanks_of_a_Fire">
		<glossterm>Flanks of a Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The parts of a fire's perimeter that are roughly parallel to
			the main direction of spread.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flapper">
		<glossterm>Flapper</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire suppression tool, sometimes improvised, used in direct
			attack for smothering out flames along a fire edge; may consist
			merely of a green pine bough or wet sacking, or be a manufactured
			tool such as a flap of belting fabric fastened to a long
			handle.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire_Swatter">
				<linktext>Fire Swatter</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flare-up">
		<glossterm>Flare-up</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any sudden acceleration in rate of spread or intensification
			of the fire. Unlike blowup, a flare-up is of relatively short
			duration and does not radically change existing control
			plans.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Blowup">
				<linktext>Blowup</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Extreme_Fire_Behavior">
				<linktext>Extreme Fire Behavior</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Fire_Storm">
				<linktext>Fire Storm</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flash_Fuels">
		<glossterm>Flash Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Highly combustible fine fuels such as grass, leaves, draped
			pine needles, fern, tree moss and some kinds of slash, which ignite
			readily and are consumed rapidly when dry.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fine_Fuels">
				<linktext>Fine Fuels</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flash_Point">
		<glossterm>Flash Point</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Lowest temperature at which the vapor of a combustible liquid
			can be made to ignite in air.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flashover">
		<glossterm>Flashover</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Rapid combustion and/or explosion of unburned gases trapped at
			some distance from the main fire front. Usually occurs only in
			poorly ventilated topography.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flashover1">
		<glossterm>Flashover</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Stage of a fire at which all surfaces and objects within a
			space have been heated to their ignition temperature, and flame
			breaks out almost at once over the surface of all objects within the
			space.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flight_Following">
		<glossterm>Flight Following</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The method and process through which an aircraft is tracked
			from departure point to destination. Flight following is the
			knowledge of the aircraft location and condition at regular
			intervals with a reasonable degree of certainty such that, in the
			event of mishap, those on board may be rescued.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flight_Path">
		<glossterm>Flight Path</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Track of an aircraft over the earth's surface.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flight_Path1">
		<glossterm>Flight Path</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Specified information relating to the intended flight of an
			aircraft that is filed orally or in writing with an air traffic
			control facility.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flight_Time">
		<glossterm>Flight Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The time from the moment the aircraft first moves under its
			own power for the purpose of flight until the moment it comes to
			rest at the next point of landing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flight_Visibility">
		<glossterm>Flight Visibility</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Average forward horizontal distance from the cockpit of an
			aircraft in flight at which prominent unlighted objects may be seen
			and identified by day and prominent lighted objects may be seen and
			identified by night.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Floatable_Pump">
		<glossterm>Floatable Pump</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Small portable pump that floats in the water
			source.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Flow_Conditioner">
		<glossterm>Flow Conditioner</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Chemical powders that will, in very small quantities, tend to
			prevent other powders from caking and flocculating. Imparts
			free-flowing qualities to powder. Used with fire retardant
			chemicals.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fluid_Foam">
		<glossterm>Fluid Foam</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A low expansion foam type with some bubble structure and
			moderate drain time, exhibiting properties of both wet and dry foam
			types, which is used for extinguishment, protection, and
			mopup.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fly_Ash">
		<glossterm>Fly Ash</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Particulate matter emitted by a fire and larger than 10
			microns in diameter with a consequently short residence time in the
			atmosphere.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Foam">
		<glossterm>Foam</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The aerated solution created by forcing air into, or
			entraining air in water containing a foam concentrate by means of
			suitably designed equipment or by cascading it through the air at a
			high velocity. Foam reduces combustion by cooling, moistening and
			excluding oxygen.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Foam_Blanket">
		<glossterm>Foam Blanket</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A layer of foam which forms an insulating and reflective
			barrier to heat and is used for fuel protection, suppression, and
			mopup.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Foam_Concentrate">
		<glossterm>Foam Concentrate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The concentrated foaming agent as received from the
			manufacturer which, when added to water, creates a foam solution;
			use only those approved for use in wildland fire situations by the
			authority having jurisdiction.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Foam_Generation">
		<glossterm>Foam Generation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The foam production process of forcing air into or entraining
			air in foam solution, creating a mass of bubbles.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Foam_Line">
		<glossterm>Foam Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A body of foam placed along areas to be protected from fire;
			also used as an anchor for indirect attack in place of hand-made
			fire line.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Foam_Solution">
		<glossterm>Foam Solution</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A low expansion foam type with no expansion, therefore lacking
			bubble structure, which is used for mopup and flame
			knockdown.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Foam_Systems">
		<glossterm>Foam Systems</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The apparatus and techniques used to mix concentrate with
			water to make solution, pump and mix air and solution to make foam,
			and transport and apply foam. (Systems defined here include
			compressed air foam and nozzle aspirated.)</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Foam_Type">
		<glossterm>Foam Type</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A term used to describe the consistency and viscosity of low
			expansion foam as the combination of drain time and
			expansion.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Foaming_Agent">
		<glossterm>Foaming Agent</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An additive that reduces the surface tension of water
			(producing wet water) causing it to spread and penetrate more
			effectively and which produces foam through mechanical
			means.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Foehn_Wind">
		<glossterm>Foehn Wind</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A warm, dry and strong general wind that flows down into the
			valleys when stable, high pressure air is forced across and then
			down the lee slopes of a mountain range. The descending air is
			warmed and dried due to adiabatic compression producing critical
			fire weather conditions. Locally called by various names such as
			Santa Ana winds, Devil winds, North winds, Mono winds,
			etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Folding_Tank">
		<glossterm>Folding Tank</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A portable, collapsible water tank with a tubular frame. Tank
			capacities vary in size from 500-1500 gallons.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Foliage_Freeze_Indicators">
		<glossterm>Foliage Freeze Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Small branches, needles, and leaves on green vegetation that
			take on a windswept appearance and "freeze" in that
			position.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Food_Unit">
		<glossterm>Food Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Functional unit within the Logistics Section responsible for
			providing meals for incident personnel.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Food_Unit_Leader">
		<glossterm>Food Unit Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the Food Unit.
			Reports to the Service Branch Director or Logistics Section
			Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FDUL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Food_Unit">
				<linktext>Food Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Forb">
		<glossterm>Forb</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A plant with an herbaceous (soft, rather than permanent woody)
			stem, that is not a grass or grasslike plant.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Forced_Landing">
		<glossterm>Forced Landing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Landing necessitated by failure of engines, systems, or
			components which makes continued flight impossible and which may not
			result in damage.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Forcible_Entry">
		<glossterm>Forcible Entry</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Entering a structure of vehicle illegally by means or physical
			force, often characterized by prying doors and breaking
			windows.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Forecast_Area">
		<glossterm>Forecast Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Geographical area for which a fire weather forecast is
			specified.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Forest_Fire">
		<glossterm>Forest Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Variously defined for legal purposes (e.g., the State of
			California Public Resources Code: uncontrolled fire on lands covered
			wholly or in part by timber, brush, grass, grain, or other flammable
			vegetation). Types of fires are ground, surface, and
			crown.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Forest_Planning_Language_and_Simulator">
		<glossterm>Forest Planning Language and Simulator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Computer program developed to facilitate the use of simulation
			for integrating many different resource management activities,
			including fire, into the land management planning process. FORPLAN
			incorporates unique characteristics of previous systems, links
			numerous models and data bases, allows selection of variable
			resolution levels, and permits discrete time simulation of
			disturbances on plants, fuels, and animals.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FORPLAN</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Forest_Protection">
		<glossterm>Forest Protection</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Forestry branch concerned with prevention and damage control
			to forests from human actions (unauthorized fire, grazing, felling,
			smoke), pests and pathogens, and damage from storm, frost, and other
			climatic agents.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Forest_Residue">
		<glossterm>Forest Residue</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Accumulation in the forest of living or dead (mostly woody)
			material that is added to and rearranged by human activities such as
			harvest, cultural operations, and land clearing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Forest_Service">
		<glossterm>Forest Service</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Generally understood to mean an agency of the U.S. Department
			of Agriculture. However, some states also use Forest Service, e.g.,
			Colorado State Forest Service.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Forestry_Weather_Information_System">
		<glossterm>Forestry Weather Information System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A real time system which takes observations and forecasts
			supplied by NWS in coded numeric form, reformats that input by
			computer based algorithms, and distributes the reformatted
			information as numeric and worded diagnoses and forecasts for
			specialized users in localized areas.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FWIS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Forward_Looking_Infrared">
		<glossterm>Forward Looking Infrared</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Hand held or aircraft mounted device designed to detect heat
			differentials and display their images on a video screen. FLIRs have
			thermal resolution similar to IR line scanners, but their spatial
			resolution is substantially less; commonly used to detect hot spots
			and flareups obscured by smoke, evaluate the effectiveness of firing
			operations, or detect areas needing mopup.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FLIR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Forward_Rate_of_Spread">
		<glossterm>Forward Rate of Spread</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The speed with which a fire moves in a horizontal direction
			across the landscape, usually expressed in chains per hour or feet
			per minute.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fragile_Fire_Cause_Objects">
		<glossterm>Fragile Fire Cause Objects</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Objects that are easily susceptible to damage from head and
			flame and can be easily damaged or destroyed by suppression action
			and/or during the evidence collection process. E.g., cigarette
			ash.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Free_Burning">
		<glossterm>Free Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The condition of a fire or part of a fire that has not been
			slowed by natural barriers or by control measures.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Free_Drop">
		<glossterm>Free Drop</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Cargo, not attached to a parachute, that is dropped
			intentionally from an aircraft in flight.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Free_Flow_Hydraulics">
		<glossterm>Free Flow (Hydraulics)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Maximum water flow rate a fire pump will attain when there are
			no restrictions at the pump outlet or losses due to friction or
			head.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Freezing_Rain">
		<glossterm>Freezing Rain</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Rain that freezes upon contact with objects on the
			ground.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Frequency_of_Occurrence">
		<glossterm>Frequency of Occurrence</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A quantitative expression of the presence or absence of
			individuals of a species in a population; the ratio between the
			number of sample units that contain a species and the total number
			of sample units.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Friction_Layer">
		<glossterm>Friction Layer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The layer of the atmosphere in which the frictional force of
			the earth’s surface exercises an appreciable influence on
			winds.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Friction_Loss">
		<glossterm>Friction Loss</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Pressure loss caused by the movement of water or solution
			against the interior surface of fire hose, pipe, or fittings;
			normally measured in pressure loss per length of hose or
			pipe.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Friction_Reducing_Agent">
		<glossterm>Friction Reducing Agent</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Water soluble substance that reduces frictional drag of
			solutions and dampens turbulent flow while being pumped through pipe
			or hose.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>FRA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Front">
		<glossterm>Front</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In meteorology, the boundary between two air masses of
			differing atmospheric properties.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Frost">
		<glossterm>Frost</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Crystals of ice formed and deposited like dew, but at a
			temperature below freezing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Frozen">
		<glossterm>Frozen</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In the 1978 version of NFDRS, the herbaceous stage when cold
			temperatures kill herbaceous plants and force woody fuels into
			dormancy.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel">
		<glossterm>Fuel</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any combustible material, especially petroleum-based products
			and wildland fuels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Arrangement">
		<glossterm>Fuel Arrangement</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A general term referring to the spatial distribution and
			orientation of fuel particles or pieces.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Bed">
		<glossterm>Fuel Bed</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An array of fuels usually constructed with specific loading,
			depth, and particle size to meet experimental requirements; also,
			commonly used to describe the fuel composition.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Bed_Depth">
		<glossterm>Fuel Bed Depth</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Average height of surface fuels contained in the combustion
			zone of a spreading fire front.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Characteristics">
		<glossterm>Fuel Characteristics</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Factors that make up fuels such as compactness, loading,
			horizontal continuity, vertical arrangement, chemical content, size
			and shape, and moisture content.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Class">
		<glossterm>Fuel Class</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). Group
			of fuels possessing common characteristics. Dead fuels are grouped
			according to 1-, 10-, 100-, and 1000-hour timelag, and living fuels
			are grouped as herbaceous (annual or perennial) or woody.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Condition">
		<glossterm>Fuel Condition</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Relative flammability of fuel as determined by fuel type and
			environmental conditions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Continuity">
		<glossterm>Fuel Continuity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The degree or extent of continuous or uninterrupted
			distribution of fuel particles in a fuel bed thus affecting a fire's
			ability to sustain combustion and spread. This applies to aerial
			fuels as well as surface fuels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Depth">
		<glossterm>Fuel Depth</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The average distance from the bottom of the litter layer to
			the top of the layer of fuel, usually the surface fuel.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fuel_Bed_Depth">
				<linktext>Fuel Bed Depth</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Dryness_Level">
		<glossterm>Fuel Dryness Level</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A quantitative measure of fuel moisture and receptability to
			ignition as determined by an accepted Fire Danger Rating System
			index that influences fire growth, intensity, or
			activity.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>DL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Group">
		<glossterm>Fuel Group</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An identifiable association of fuel elements of distinctive
			species, form, size, arrangement, or other characteristics. General
			fuel groups are grass, brush, timber, and slash.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Loading">
		<glossterm>Fuel Loading</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The amount of fuel present expressed quantitatively in terms
			of weight of fuel per unit area. This may be available fuel
			(consumable fuel) or total fuel and is usually dry
			weight.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Management">
		<glossterm>Fuel Management</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Act or practice of controlling flammability and reducing
			resistance to control of wildland fuels through mechanical,
			chemical, biological, or manual means, or by fire, in support of
			land management objectives.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Model">
		<glossterm>Fuel Model</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Simulated fuel complex for which all fuel descriptors required
			for the solution of a mathematical rate of spread model have been
			specified.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Modification">
		<glossterm>Fuel Modification</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Manipulation or removal of fuels to reduce the likelihood of
			ignition and/or to lessen potential damage and resistance to control
			(e.g., lopping, chipping, crushing, piling and burning).</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Fuel Treatment</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Moisture_Analog">
		<glossterm>Fuel Moisture Analog</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Device that emulates the moisture response of specific classes
			of dead fuels, constructed from organic or inorganic materials
			(e.g., half-inch ponderosa pine dowels representing ten-hour timelag
			fuels).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Moisture_Content">
		<glossterm>Fuel Moisture Content</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The quantity of moisture in fuel expressed as a percentage of
			the weight when thoroughly dried at 212 degrees F.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Moisture_Indicator_Stick">
		<glossterm>Fuel Moisture Indicator Stick</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A specially prepared stick or set of sticks of known dry
			weight continuously exposed to the weather and periodically weighed
			to determine changes in moisture content as an indication of
			moisture changes in wildland fuels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Reduction">
		<glossterm>Fuel Reduction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Manipulation, including combustion, or removal of fuels to
			reduce the likelihood of ignition and/or to lessen potential damage
			and resistance to control.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Size_Class">
		<glossterm>Fuel Size Class</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A category used to describe the diameter of down dead woody
			fuels. Fuels within the same size class are assumed to have similar
			wetting and drying properties, and to preheat and ignite at similar
			rates during the combustion process.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Temperature">
		<glossterm>Fuel Temperature</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The temperature reading measured from a fuel stick fully
			exposed to sunlight, above a representative fuel bed, using one of
			two methods (within a 3/4-inch or across a 1/2-inch pine
			dowel).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Tender">
		<glossterm>Fuel Tender</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any vehicle capable of supplying engine fuel to ground or
			airborne equipment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuel_Type">
		<glossterm>Fuel Type</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An identifiable association of fuel elements of distinctive
			species, form, size, arrangement, or other characteristics that will
			cause a predictable rate of spread or resistance to control under
			specified weather conditions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuelbreak">
		<glossterm>Fuelbreak</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A natural or manmade change in fuel characteristics which
			affects fire behavior so that fires burning into them can be more
			readily controlled.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuelbreak_System">
		<glossterm>Fuelbreak System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A series of modified strips or blocks tied together to form
			continuous strategically located fuel breaks around land
			units.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fuels_Wet_Flag">
		<glossterm>Fuels Wet Flag</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A one-character code indicating whether or not fine fuels are
			wet or dry.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fugitive_Color">
		<glossterm>Fugitive Color</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A coloring agent used in fire retardants that is designed to
			fade rapidly following retardant application in order to minimize
			the visual impacts of the retardant.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Full-thickness_Burn">
		<glossterm>Full-thickness Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A burn involving all the layer of the skin. Muscle layers
			below the skin and bones may also be damaged. Muscle layers below
			the skin and bones may also be damaged. Areas of the skin may be
			charred black or areas that are dry and white. (also called Third
			Degree Burn)</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Partial-thickness_Burn">
				<linktext>Partial-thickness Burn</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Superficial_Burn">
				<linktext>Superficial Burn</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fume">
		<glossterm>Fume</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An airborne irritating, noxious, or toxic smoke, vapor, or any
			combination of these produced by a volatile substance or a chemical
			reaction.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Function">
		<glossterm>Function</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In ICS, function refers to the five major activities, command,
			operations, planning, logistics and
			finance/administration.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Fusee">
		<glossterm>Fusee</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A colored flare designed as a railway warning device, widely
			used to ignite backfires and other prescribed fires.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Gallons_per_Minute">
		<glossterm>Gallons per Minute</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The measure of water flow in firefighting. It is used to
			measure the output of wildland and structural fire engines, pumps,
			hose streams, nozzles, hydrants, and water mains.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>GPM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Gap">
		<glossterm>Gap</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Weak or missed area in a retardant drop or in a
			fireline.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Gate_Valve">
		<glossterm>Gate Valve</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A valve with a gate-like disk that moves up and down at right
			angles to the flow when actuated by a stem screw and hand wheel.
			Gate valves are best for service that requires infrequent valve
			operation and where the disk is kept either fully open or
			closed.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Gear_Pump">
		<glossterm>Gear Pump</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Positive displacement pump which uses closely meshed gears to
			propel water when high pressures and low volumes are desired; can be
			used safely only with clear water-- suspended particles of soil or
			rocks can quickly wear the gears and reduce pressure and volume of
			water.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="General_Fire_Weather_Forecast">
		<glossterm>General Fire Weather Forecast</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A forecast, issued daily during the regular fire season to
			resource management agencies, that is intended for planning of daily
			fire management activities, including daily staffing levels,
			prevention programs, and initial attack on wildfires. Also called
			presuppression forecast.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Incident_Weather_Forecast">
				<linktext>Incident Weather Forecast</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Spot_Weather_Forecast">
				<linktext>Spot Weather Forecast</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="General_Origin_Area">
		<glossterm>General Origin Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The larger area where the fire started that is readily
			identifiable based on macro scale indicators and witness
			statements.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="General_Services_Administration">
		<glossterm>General Services Administration</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An agency of the United States Government that includes the
			Federal Supply Service, the Automated Data and Telecommunications
			Service, the Public Buildings Service, and the National Archives and
			Records Service.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>GSA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="General_Staff">
		<glossterm>General Staff</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The group of incident management personnel reporting to the
			Incident Commander. They may each have a deputy, as needed. The
			General Staff consists of: Operations Section Chief, Planning
			Section Chief, Logistics Section Chief, and Finance/Administration
			Section Chief.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="General_Winds">
		<glossterm>General Winds</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Large scale winds caused by high- and low-pressure systems but
			generally influenced and modified in the lower atmosphere by
			terrain.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Local_Winds">
				<linktext>Local Winds</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Slope_Winds">
				<linktext>Slope Winds</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Geographic_Area">
		<glossterm>Geographic Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A boundary designated by governmental agencies (wildland fire
			protection agencies) within which they work together for the
			interagency, intergovernmental planning, coordination, and
			operations leadership for the effective utilization of emergency
			management resources within their area. There are nine geographic
			areas. A listing of the areas can be found in the National
			Interagency Mobilization Guide, Chapter 20, section 21.1 along with
			listings of the Geographic Coordinating Areas and Geographic Area
			Coordination Centers.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Geographic_Area_Coordination_Center">
				<linktext>Geographic Area Coordination Center</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Geographic_Coordinating_Area">
				<linktext>Geographic Coordinating Area</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Geographic_Area_Coordination_Center">
		<glossterm>Geographic Area Coordination Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The physical location of an interagency, regional operation
			center for the effective coordination, mobilization and
			demobilization of emergency management resources. Listings of
			geographic coordination centers and their respective geographic
			coordinating areas can be found within the National Interagency
			Mobilization Guide, Chapter 20, Section 21.1</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>GACC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Geographic_Area">
				<linktext>Geographic Area</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Geographic_Coordinating_Area">
				<linktext>Geographic Coordinating Area</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Geographic_Coordinating_Area">
		<glossterm>Geographic Coordinating Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A boundary designated by governmental agencies (wildland fire
			protection agencies), that may coincide with a geographic area
			boundary or may be a subdivision of a geographic area within which
			they work together coordinating, for the effective, mobilization and
			demobilization of emergency management resources within their area.
			Listings of geographic coordinating areas and geographic
			coordination centers can be found in the National Interagency
			Mobilization Guide, Chapter 20, Section 21.1.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Geographic_Area">
				<linktext>Geographic Area</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Geographic_Area_Coordination_Center">
				<linktext>Geographic Area Coordination Center</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Geographic_Information_System_Specialist">
		<glossterm>Geographic Information System Specialist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The incident support position responsible for collecting and
			maintaining geospatial data and providing geospatial analysis and
			producing products (maps, etc.) in support of wildland fire incident
			planning. GISS is utilized in support of incident management,
			assigned to an ICS organization's Situation Unit.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>GISS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Geostationary_Operational_Environmental_Satellite">
		<glossterm>Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The satellite used for data relay from NFDRS weather stations
			to ASCADS.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>GOES</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#National_Fire_Danger_Rating_System">
				<linktext>National Fire Danger Rating System</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Getaway_Time">
		<glossterm>Getaway Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Elapsed time from receipt of notification by the personnel
			charged with initiating suppression action to the departure of the
			first attack unit.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Global_Positioning_System">
		<glossterm>Global Positioning System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A system of navigational satellites operated by the U.S.
			Department of Defense and available for civilian use. The system can
			track objects anywhere in the world with an accuracy of
			approximately 40 feet.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>GPS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Glowing_Combustion">
		<glossterm>Glowing Combustion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>the process of oxidation of solid fuel accompanied by
			incandescence. All volatiles have already been driven off, oxygen
			reaches the combustion surfaces, and there is no visible smoke. This
			phase follows the smoldering combustion phase and continues until
			the temperature drops below the combustion threshold value, or until
			only non-combustible ash remains.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Glowing_Combustion_Phase">
		<glossterm>Glowing Combustion Phase</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The final phase of combustion following flaming and smoldering
			phases.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Glowing_Combustion">
				<linktext>Glowing Combustion</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Glowing_Phase">
		<glossterm>Glowing Phase</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Glowing_Combustion_Phase">
				<linktext>Glowing Combustion Phase</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Going_Fire">
		<glossterm>Going Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any wildfire on which suppression action has not reached an
			extensive mop up stage.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Gradient_Wind">
		<glossterm>Gradient Wind</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Wind flowing parallel to pressure isobars or contours with low
			pressure on the left of the observer in the Northern Hemisphere;
			velocity such that the pressure gradient, Coriolis, and centrifugal
			force acting in the area are in balance.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Gradient_Wind1">
		<glossterm>Gradient Wind</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Wind created by differing barometric pressures between high-
			and low-pressure systems. Velocity is generally five to 30 miles per
			hour, and wind shifts are usually gradual as systems move and
			shift.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Grass_Fire">
		<glossterm>Grass Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any fire in which the predominant fuel is grass or
			grasslike.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Grass_Stem_Indicators">
		<glossterm>Grass Stem Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Remains of grass stems having different appearances based on
			the direction of fire spread.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Grass_Type">
		<glossterm>Grass Type</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In NFDRS, the two grass types (annual, perennial) determine
			how seasonal drying of live herbaceous fuels is modeled.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Gravimetric">
		<glossterm>Gravimetric</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Of, or pertaining to, measurement by weight.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Gravity_Tank">
		<glossterm>Gravity Tank</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Water storage tank for fire protection and sometimes community
			water service that supplies water by gravity pressure.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Green-up">
		<glossterm>Green-up</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Green-up for the 1978 version of NFDRS model is defined as the
			beginning of a new cycle of plant growth. Green-up usually occurs
			once a year, except in desert areas where rainy periods can produce
			a flush of new growth more than once a year. Green-up may be
			signaled at different dates for different fuel models. Green-up
			should not be started when the first flush of green occurs in the
			area. Instead, the vegetation that will be the fire problem
			(represented by the NFDRS fuel model associated with the weather
			station) when it matures and cures should be identified. Green-up
			should start when the majority of this vegetation starts to
			grow.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Greenbelt">
		<glossterm>Greenbelt</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Landscaped and regularly maintained fuelbreak, usually put to
			some additional use (e.g., golf course, park,
			playground).</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fuelbreak">
				<linktext>Fuelbreak</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Greenhouse_Effect">
		<glossterm>Greenhouse Effect</glossterm>
		<glossdef>the heating of the earth's surface by both atmospheric
			infrared radiation and incoming solar radiation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Greenness_Factor">
		<glossterm>Greenness Factor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In the 1988 version of NFDRS, a code scaled from 0 to 20
			representing the greenness of grasses and shrubs from near dead to
			maximum greenness.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Relative_Greenness">
				<linktext>Relative Greenness</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Grid_Ignition_Technique">
		<glossterm>Grid Ignition Technique</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Method of igniting prescribed fires in which ignition points
			are set individually at predetermined spacing with predetermined
			timing throughout the area to be burned. Also called point source
			ignition technique.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Gridding">
		<glossterm>Gridding</glossterm>
		<glossdef>To search for a small fire by systematically traveling over an
			area on parallel courses or gridlines.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Gross_Axle_Weight_Rating">
		<glossterm>Gross Axle Weight Rating</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The value specified by the manufacturer as the maximum
			allowable weight placed on an axle of a vehicle when fully equipped,
			including payload, fluids and occupants.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>GAWR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Gross_Vehicle_Weight">
		<glossterm>Gross Vehicle Weight</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Actual vehicle weight, including chassis, body, cab,
			equipment, water, fuel, crew, and all other load.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>GVW</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Gross_Vehicle_Weight_Rating">
		<glossterm>Gross Vehicle Weight Rating</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The value specified by the manufacturer as the maximum
			allowable weight of a vehicle fully equipped, including payload,
			fluids and occupants.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>GVWR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Gross_Weight">
		<glossterm>Gross Weight</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Total allowable weight of a loaded aircraft for takeoff or
			landing, adjusted for altitude differences.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ground_Effect">
		<glossterm>Ground Effect</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Reaction of a rotor downdraft against the ground surface,
			forming a "ground cushion" that increases lifting capability of that
			section of air.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ground_Fire">
		<glossterm>Ground Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire that consumes the organic material beneath the surface
			litter ground, such as a peat fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ground_Fog">
		<glossterm>Ground Fog</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fog which extends vertically to less than 20 feet.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ground_Fuel">
		<glossterm>Ground Fuel</glossterm>
		<glossdef>All combustible materials below the surface litter, including
			duff, tree or shrub roots, punky wood, peat, and sawdust, that
			normally support a glowing combustion without flame.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ground_Speed">
		<glossterm>Ground Speed</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Speed with which an aircraft traverses the ground over which
			it flies.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ground_Support_Unit">
		<glossterm>Ground Support Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Functional unit within the Logistics Section responsible for
			the fueling, maintaining and repairing of vehicles, and the
			transportation of personnel and supplies.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ground_Support_Unit_Leader">
		<glossterm>Ground Support Unit Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the Ground
			Support Unit. Reports to the Support Branch Director or Logistics
			Section Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>GSUL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Ground_Support_Unit">
				<linktext>Ground Support Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ground_Truth">
		<glossterm>Ground Truth</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Verification at the site of what has been observed and/or
			measured from aircraft, satellites, other aerial platforms, aerial
			photographs, or maps.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ground_Visibility">
		<glossterm>Ground Visibility</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Horizontal visibility observed at the ground.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Group">
		<glossterm>Group</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Groups are established to divide the incident into functional
			areas of operation. Groups are composed of resources assembled to
			perform a special function not necessarily within a single
			geographic division. Groups, when activated, are located between
			branches and resources in the operations section.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Division">
				<linktext>Division</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Growing_Season_Burning">
		<glossterm>Growing Season Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Prescribed burning or wildland fire use during the
			photosynthetically-active growing season, where live fuel moistures
			are relatively high and the dominant vegetation, grasses, forbs, and
			herbaceous vegetation are fully greened.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Guard_Unit">
		<glossterm>Guard Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Geographic subdivision of a fire-protected area, delimiting
			the initial attack bounds of a single fire guard or fire
			crew.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Gum_Thickened_Sulphate">
		<glossterm>Gum Thickened Sulphate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A dry chemical product which is mixed with water to form a
			fire retardant slurry.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>GTS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Gust">
		<glossterm>Gust</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Rapid fluctuations in wind speed with a variation of 10 knots
			(11.5 mph) or more between peaks and lulls.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Haines_Index">
		<glossterm>Haines Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An atmospheric index used to indicate the potential for
			wildfire growth by measuring the stability and dryness of the air
			over a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hand_Crew">
		<glossterm>Hand Crew</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A number of individuals that have been organized and trained
			and are supervised principally for operational assignments on an
			incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Handline">
		<glossterm>Handline</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fireline constructed with hand tools.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hangup_Tree_Falling">
		<glossterm>Hangup (Tree Falling)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A situation in which a tree is lodged in another, preventing
			it from falling to the ground.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hard_Suction_Hose">
		<glossterm>Hard Suction Hose</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Noncollapsible suction hose attached to a pump and used to
			draft water from a source lower than the pump. Customary hose sizes
			in wildland fire engines are 2 and 2-1/2 inches in diameter (51 and
			64 mm).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hazard">
		<glossterm>Hazard</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any real or potential condition that can cause injury, illness
			or death of personnel, or damage to, or loss of equipment or
			property.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hazard_Assessment">
		<glossterm>Hazard Assessment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Assess hazards to determine risks. Assess the impact of each
			hazard in terms of potential loss, cost, or strategic degradation
			based on probability and severity.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Hazard_Fuel">
				<linktext>Hazard Fuel</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Risk">
				<linktext>Risk</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Risk1">
				<linktext>Risk</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Risk2">
				<linktext>Risk</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Risk3">
				<linktext>Risk</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hazard_Fuel">
		<glossterm>Hazard Fuel</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fuel complex defined by kind, arrangement, volume,
			condition, and location that presents a threat of ignition and
			resistance to control.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hazard_Map">
		<glossterm>Hazard Map</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Map of the area of operations that shows all of the known
			aerial hazards, including but not limited to power lines, military
			training areas, hang gliding areas, etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hazard_Pay">
		<glossterm>Hazard Pay</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A salary differential that compensates employees for exposure
			to hazards in the course of their duties.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hazard_Reduction">
		<glossterm>Hazard Reduction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any treatment of living and dead fuels that reduces the
			potential spread or consequences of fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hazardous_Areas">
		<glossterm>Hazardous Areas</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Those wildland areas where the combination of vegetation,
			topography, weather, and the threat of fire to life and property
			create difficult and dangerous problems.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hazardous_Materials">
		<glossterm>Hazardous Materials</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Substances that are identified, classified, and regulated in
			the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 49 and Hazardous Materials
			Regulations 175.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hazardous_Materials1">
		<glossterm>Hazardous Materials</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A substance or material which has been determined by the
			Secretary of Transportation to be capable of posing an unreasonable
			risk to health, safety, and property when transported in commerce
			and which has been so designated.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Haze">
		<glossterm>Haze</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A sufficient concentration of atmospheric aerosols to affect a
			visible attenuation of light and measurable reduction in visual
			range. The aerosol particle diameter is near the wavelength of
			visible light, optimizing the light scattering efficiency of the
			particles.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Haze_Meter">
		<glossterm>Haze Meter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Instrument for measuring the dependable range of distance at
			which a standard smoke column can be detected by the unaided eye
			under existing haze conditions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Head_Fire">
		<glossterm>Head Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire spreading or set to spread with the wind.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Advancing_Fire" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Advancing Fire</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Head_Pressure">
		<glossterm>Head Pressure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Pressure due to elevation of water. Equals 0.433 pounds per
			square inch (PSI) per foot of elevation. (Approximately 0.5 PSI is
			required to lift water 1 foot in elevation)</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Head_of_a_Fire">
		<glossterm>Head of a Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The most rapidly spreading portion of a fire's perimeter,
			usually to the leeward or up slope.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heading">
		<glossterm>Heading</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The compass direction in which the longitudinal axis of the
			aircraft points.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Headlamp">
		<glossterm>Headlamp</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Flashlight, ordinarily worn by firefighter on the front of the
			helmet.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heat">
		<glossterm>Heat</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Temperatures higher than that of the normal atmosphere,
			produced by the process of burning or oxidation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heat_Content">
		<glossterm>Heat Content</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The net amount of heat that would be given off if fuel burns
			when it is absolutely dry, noted as Btu per pound of
			fuel.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heat_Low">
		<glossterm>Heat Low</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area of low pressure caused by intense heating of the
			earth's surface. High surface temperature causes air to expand and
			rise, resulting in low atmospheric pressure and induces a weak
			inflow of air at the surface. Air which rises in a heat low is very
			dry so clouds seldom form. Rising air above a heat low produces a
			warm upper level high and results in a net outflow of air aloft.
			Heat lows remain practically stationary over areas which produce
			them.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heat_Probe">
		<glossterm>Heat Probe</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Apparatus used to detect heat.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heat_Release_Rate">
		<glossterm>Heat Release Rate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Total amount of heat produced per unit mass of fuel consumed
			per unit time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heat_Release_Rate1">
		<glossterm>Heat Release Rate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Amount of heat released to the atmosphere from the
			convective-lift fire phase of a fire per unit time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heat_Transfer">
		<glossterm>Heat Transfer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Process by which heat is imparted from one body to another,
			through conduction, convection, and radiation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heat_Trough">
		<glossterm>Heat Trough</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A Heat Low which is elongated in shape. Also called: Heat Low;
			Thermal Low; Thermal Trough.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heat_Value">
		<glossterm>Heat Value</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The total heat energy released during combustion, usually
			published as units of heat energy produced per unit mass of ovendry
			fuel consumed.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heat_Yield">
		<glossterm>Heat Yield</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The heat of combustion corrected for various heat losses,
			mainly the presence of moisture in the fuel. To a very close
			approximation, the quantity of heat per pound of fuel burned that
			passes through a cross section of the convection column above a fire
			that is burning in a neutrally stable atmosphere. Also called low
			heat of combustion.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heat_of_Combustion">
		<glossterm>Heat of Combustion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The heat energy resulting from the complete combustion of a
			fuel, expressed as the quantity of heat per unit weight of fuel. The
			high heat of combustion is the potential available, and the low heat
			of combustion is the high heat of combustion minus several losses
			that occur in an open system (primarily heat of vaporization of
			moisture in the fuel) .</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heat_per_Unit_Area">
		<glossterm>Heat per Unit Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Total amount of heat released per unit area as the flaming
			front of the fire passes, expressed as Btu/square foot; a measure of
			the total amount of heat released in flames.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heavy_Equipment_Transport">
		<glossterm>Heavy Equipment Transport</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any ground vehicle capable of transporting a dozer, tractor,
			or other heavy piece of equipment. Also called lowboy.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heavy_Fuels">
		<glossterm>Heavy Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fuels of large diameter such as snags, logs, large limbwood,
			which ignite and are consumed more slowly than flash fuels. Also
			called coarse fuels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heavy_Ignition_Source">
		<glossterm>Heavy Ignition Source</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Objects that will tend to settle or burrow under the surface
			of the materials first ignited as a result of either weight or
			temperature. I.e., welding slag, exhaust particles, large metal
			fragments, etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Height">
		<glossterm>Height</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The vertical measurement of vegetation from the top of the
			crown to ground level.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Held_Line">
		<glossterm>Held Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>All control line that still contains the fire when mopup is
			completed. Excludes lost line, natural barriers not backfired, and
			unused secondary lines.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helibase">
		<glossterm>Helibase</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The main location within the general incident area for
			parking, fueling, maintenance, and loading of helicopters. It is
			usually located at or near the incident base.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helibase_Crew">
		<glossterm>Helibase Crew</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A crew of individuals who may be assigned to support
			helicopter operations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helibase_Manager">
		<glossterm>Helibase Manager</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for controlling helicopter
			take-offs and landings at a helibase, managing helibase assigned
			helicopters, supplies, fire retardant mixing and loading and reports
			to the Air Support Group Supervisor.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>HEB1</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>HEB2</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helibase_Radio_Operator">
		<glossterm>Helibase Radio Operator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for maintaining radio
			communications between incident assigned helicopters and helibases,
			and Takeoff and Landing Coordinator and reports to the Helibase
			Manager.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>HERO</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helibucket">
		<glossterm>Helibucket</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Specially designed bucket carried by a helicopter like a sling
			load and used for aerial delivery of water or fire
			retardants.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helicopter">
		<glossterm>Helicopter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An aircraft that depends principally on the lift generated by
			one or more rotors for its support in flight.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Rotorcraft" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Rotorcraft</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helicopter_Boss">
		<glossterm>Helicopter Boss</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An individual assigned to an agency helicopter to supervise
			assigned crew members, oversee the loading and unloading of
			personnel and/or cargo, and ensure that agency policies and
			procedures governing helicopter operations are followed.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>HELB</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helicopter_Coordinator">
		<glossterm>Helicopter Coordinator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>this ICS position is responsible for coordinating tactical and
			logistical helicopter missions at the incident and reports to the
			Air Tactical Group Supervisor. This position can be airborne or
			ground-based with one or more assigned to an incident, depending on
			the number and type of missions to be accomplished.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>HLCO</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helicopter_Crewmember">
		<glossterm>Helicopter Crewmember</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An individual assigned to an agency or call-when-needed
			helicopter to support helicopter operations.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>HECM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helicopter_Manager">
		<glossterm>Helicopter Manager</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An individual assigned to a call-when-needed (CWN) helicopter
			to serve as helicopter boss, administer contracts, and verify CWN
			helicopter and pilot qualifications.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>HCWN</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Helicopter_Boss">
				<linktext>Helicopter Boss</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helicopter_Tender">
		<glossterm>Helicopter Tender</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A ground service vehicle capable of supplying fuel and support
			equipment to helicopters.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helicopter_Timekeeper">
		<glossterm>Helicopter Timekeeper</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for keeping time for
			helicopters assigned to the helibases and reports to the Helibase
			Radio Operator.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Heliport">
		<glossterm>Heliport</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A permanent facility for the operation of helicopters which
			has been built to FAA standards and which is marked on aeronautical
			charts. Natural resource agencies refer to agency heliports as
			permanent helibases.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helipumper">
		<glossterm>Helipumper</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Lightweight portable pump developed for transport by
			helicopter.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helispot">
		<glossterm>Helispot</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A natural or improved takeoff and landing area intended for
			temporary or occasional helicopter use.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helispot_Manager">
		<glossterm>Helispot Manager</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for controlling helicopter
			take-offs and landings at a helispot, managing helispot assigned
			helicopters, supplies, fire retardant mixing and loading and reports
			to the Helibase Manager.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>HESM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helitack">
		<glossterm>Helitack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The utilization of helicopters to transport crews, equipment,
			and fire retardants or suppressants to the fireline during the
			initial stages of a fire. The term also refers to the crew that
			performs helicopter management and attack activities.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helitack_Crew">
		<glossterm>Helitack Crew</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A crew of firefighters specially trained and certified in the
			tactical and logistical use of helicopters for fire
			suppression.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helitack_Foreman">
		<glossterm>Helitack Foreman</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A supervisory firefighter trained in the tactical use of
			helicopters for fire suppression.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helitank">
		<glossterm>Helitank</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Specially designed tank, generally of fabric or metal, fitted
			closely to the bottom of a helicopter and used for transporting and
			dropping suppressants or fire retardants.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helitanker">
		<glossterm>Helitanker</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A helicopter equipped with a fixed tank, Air Tanker Board
			certified, capable of delivering a minimum of 1,100 gallons of
			water, foam, or retardant.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Helitorch">
		<glossterm>Helitorch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An aerial ignition device hung from or mounted on a helicopter
			to disperse ignited lumps of gelled gasoline. Used for backfires,
			burnouts, or prescribed burns.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Aerial_Ignition_Device">
				<linktext>Aerial Ignition Device</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Delayed_Aerial_Ignition_Devices">
				<linktext>Delayed Aerial Ignition Devices</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Ping-Pong_Ball_System">
				<linktext>Ping-Pong Ball System</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Plastic_Sphere_Dispenser">
				<linktext>Plastic Sphere Dispenser</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Herb">
		<glossterm>Herb</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A plant that does not develop woody, persistent tissue but is
			relatively soft or succulent and sprouts from the base (perennials)
			or develops from seed (annuals) each year. Includes grasses, forbs
			and ferns.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Herbaceous_Fuel_Moisture">
		<glossterm>Herbaceous Fuel Moisture</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In NFDRS, a calculated value representing the approximate
			moisture content of the live herbaceous vegetation in the rating
			area expressed as a percentage of the oven dry weight of the
			sample.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Woody_Fuel_Moisture">
				<linktext>Woody Fuel Moisture</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Herbaceous_Stage">
		<glossterm>Herbaceous Stage</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The modeled condition of herbaceous vegetation (pre-green,
			green-up, transition, cured, frozen) for the 1978 version of
			NFDRS.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hidden_Fire_Scar">
		<glossterm>Hidden Fire Scar</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire scar in a tree resulting from fire injury to the cambium
			without destruction of the overlying bark and therefore not readily
			discernible.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Higbee_Cut">
		<glossterm>Higbee Cut</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Removal of the first (i.e., outside) thread of a female or
			male coupling to prevent crossing or mutilation of threads. Dimpled
			rocker lug on female coupling indicates beginning of Higbee
			Cut.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="High_Expansion">
		<glossterm>High Expansion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Foam with an expansion between 201:1 and 1000:1.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="High_Fire_Risk_Day">
		<glossterm>High Fire Risk Day</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A day when an ignition trigger and/or significant weather
			trigger and an appropriate fuel dryness level combine to create
			conditions that historically have resulted in a significant fire
			event for a particular area.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fuel_Dryness_Level">
				<linktext>Fuel Dryness Level</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Ignition_Trigger">
				<linktext>Ignition Trigger</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Significant_Fire_Event">
				<linktext>Significant Fire Event</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Significant_Weather_Trigger">
				<linktext>Significant Weather Trigger</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="High_Pressure_Fog">
		<glossterm>High Pressure Fog</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Small capacity spray jet produced at very high pressures
			(greater than 250 psi, the normal maximum pressure for standard
			ground tankers) and discharged through a small hose with a gun-type
			nozzle.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Historical_Weather_Station">
		<glossterm>Historical Weather Station</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In WIMS, a weather station that is no longer in service for
			which access to archived observations is still available in
			NIFMID.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Holding_Actions">
		<glossterm>Holding Actions</glossterm>
		<glossdef>All actions taken to stop the spread of fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Holding_Orbit">
		<glossterm>Holding Orbit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A predetermined maneuver which keeps an aircraft within a
			specified airspace while awaiting further orders.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Holding_Resources">
		<glossterm>Holding Resources</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Resources assigned to do all required fire suppression work
			following fireline construction but generally not including
			extensive mop up.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Holding Forces</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Holdover_Fire">
		<glossterm>Holdover Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire that remains dormant for a considerable time. Also
			called sleeper fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Home_Assessment">
		<glossterm>Home Assessment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Evaluation of a dwelling and its immediate surrounding to
			determine its potential to escape damage by an approaching wildland
			fire. Includes the fuels and vegetation in the yard and adjacent to
			the structure, roof environment, decking and siding materials,
			prevailing winds, topography, fire history, etc., with the intent of
			mitigating fire hazards and risks.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Home_Unit">
		<glossterm>Home Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The designated agency or entity providing contracted resources
			that employs the individual who is actively pursuing a position
			performance assignment (completion of a position task
			book).</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Position_Performance_Assignment">
				<linktext>Position Performance Assignment</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Position_Task_Book">
				<linktext>Position Task Book</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hose_Clamp">
		<glossterm>Hose Clamp</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Crimping device for stopping the flow of water in a
			hose.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hose_Lay">
		<glossterm>Hose Lay</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Arrangement of connected lengths of fire hose and accessories
			on the ground, beginning at the first pumping unit and ending at the
			point of water delivery.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hose_Rack">
		<glossterm>Hose Rack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Item for storing drying fire hose.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hose_Reel">
		<glossterm>Hose Reel</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A rotating drum used for winding booster hose (normally) for
			storing and dispensing.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Booster_Reel">
				<linktext>Booster Reel</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hose_Thread">
		<glossterm>Hose Thread</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The specific dimensions of screw thread employed to coupled
			fire hose and equipment. American National Standards (NH) have been
			adopted for fire hose couplings threads in 3/4, 1-1/2, 2-1/2, 3-1/2,
			4, 5, and 6-inch sizes.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hose_Washer">
		<glossterm>Hose Washer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Device for cleaning the exterior of fire hose.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hoseline_Tee">
		<glossterm>Hoseline Tee</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fitting that may be installed between lengths of hose to
			provide an independently controlled outlet for a branch
			line.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hot-spotting">
		<glossterm>Hot-spotting</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Checking the spread of fire at points of more rapid spread or
			special threat. Is usually the initial step in prompt control, with
			emphasis on first priorities.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hot_Spot">
		<glossterm>Hot Spot</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A particularly active part of a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hotshot_Crew">
		<glossterm>Hotshot Crew</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Intensively trained fire crew used primarily in hand line
			construction (Type-1).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hover">
		<glossterm>Hover</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A stationary in-flight condition for helicopters when no
			directional flight is achieved.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hover_Ceiling">
		<glossterm>Hover Ceiling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Highest altitude above sea level at which a helicopter can
			hover at maximum computed gross weight. It is generally specified
			whether the quoted hover ceiling refers to hovering in ground effect
			(HIGE) or hovering out of ground effect (HOGE).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hover_Hook-up">
		<glossterm>Hover Hook-up</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Attaching of a cargo lead line to a hovering
			helicopter.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hoverfill">
		<glossterm>Hoverfill</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The process by which a helicopter fills a helibucket while
			hovering above the water source.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hovering_in_Ground_Effect">
		<glossterm>Hovering in Ground Effect</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The situation in which a helicopter is hovering sufficiently
			close to the ground to achieve added lift due to the effects of
			"ground cushion." The HIGE ceiling, for a given gross weight, thus
			is greater than the HOGE (Hovering Out of Ground Effect)
			ceiling.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>HIGE</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Human-caused_Fire">
		<glossterm>Human-caused Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any fire caused directly or indirectly by
			person(s).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Human-caused_Risk">
		<glossterm>Human-caused Risk</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). A
			model for predicting the average number of reportable human caused
			fires from a given ignition component value.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Human-caused_Risk_Scaling_Factor">
		<glossterm>Human-caused Risk Scaling Factor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). Number
			relating human-caused fire incidence to the ignition component in a
			fire danger rating area. It is based on three to five years of fire
			occurrence and fire weather data that adjusts the prediction of the
			basic human-caused fire occurrence model to fit local
			experience.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Human_Resource_Specialist">
		<glossterm>Human Resource Specialist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An individual having responsibility for assisting incident
			personnel and agency administrators with human resource, civil
			rights, and inappropriate behavior concerns. HRSP solicits
			involvement from the appropriate incident authorities in order to
			resolve human resource, civil rights, and inappropriate behavior
			issues informally, quickly, legally, and at the lowest impacted
			level.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>HRSP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Humidity">
		<glossterm>Humidity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>General term referring to the moisture content of the
			atmosphere.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Relative_Humidity">
				<linktext>Relative Humidity</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Humus">
		<glossterm>Humus</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Layer of decomposed organic matter on the forest floor beneath
			the fermentation layer and directly above the soil. It is that part
			of the duff in which decomposition has rendered vegetation
			unrecognizable and mixing of soil and organic matter is
			underway.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Duff">
				<linktext>Duff</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Litter">
				<linktext>Litter</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hydrophobicity">
		<glossterm>Hydrophobicity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Resistance to wetting exhibited by some soils, also called
			water repellency. The phenomenon may occur naturally or may be
			fire-induced. It may be determined by water drop penetration time,
			equilibrium liquid-contact angles, solid-air surface tension
			indices, or the characterization of dynamic wetting angles during
			infiltration.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Hygrothermograph">
		<glossterm>Hygrothermograph</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Recording instrument combining, on one paper record, the
			variation of dry-bulb temperature and relative humidity as a
			function of time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="I-Zone">
		<glossterm>I-Zone</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area that, in relation to wildland/urban fire, has a set of
			conditions that provides the opportunity for fire to burn from
			wildland vegetation to the home/structure ignition zone.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Wildland_Urban_Interface">
				<linktext>Wildland Urban Interface</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="IMI_Interactivity_Levels">
		<glossterm>IMI Interactivity Levels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Standards to which IMI products are developed conforming to
			interactivity level(s) which are appropriate for the instructional
			design, strategy, media, content, and course
			specifications.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#IMI_Level_1_Interactivity">
				<linktext>IMI Level 1 Interactivity</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#IMI_Level_2_Interactivity">
				<linktext>IMI Level 2 Interactivity</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#IMI_Level_3_Interactivity">
				<linktext>IMI Level 3 Interactivity</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Interactive_Multimedia_Instruction">
				<linktext>Interactive Multimedia Instruction</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="IMI_Level_1_Interactivity">
		<glossterm>IMI Level 1 Interactivity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This is the lowest level of courseware development. It is
			normally a knowledge familiarity lesson, provided in a linear format
			(one idea after another). Use Level 1 to introduce an idea or
			concept, or to familiarize. Provide minimal interactivity by using
			selectable screen icons that are inserted into the linear, or almost
			linear, flow of the courseware. Allow the student little or no
			control of the sequence of instructional media presented, including:
			simple developed graphics, clip art, customer provided video and
			audio segments (clips). Make use of typical input/output peripherals
			throughout the lesson.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Interactive_Multimedia_Instruction">
				<linktext>Interactive Multimedia Instruction</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="IMI_Level_2_Interactivity">
		<glossterm>IMI Level 2 Interactivity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This involves the recall of more information than a level 1
			and allows the student more control over the lesson’s scenario
			through screen icons and other peripherals, such as light pens or
			touch screens. Typically level 2 is used for non-complex operations
			and maintenance lessons. Simple emulations or simulations are
			presented to the user. As an example, the user is requested to
			rotate switches, turn dials, make adjustments, or identify and
			replace a faulted component as part of a procedure. This also may
			include simple to standard developed graphics, and/or clip art, and
			video and audio clips.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Interactive_Multimedia_Instruction">
				<linktext>Interactive Multimedia Instruction</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="IMI_Level_3_Interactivity">
		<glossterm>IMI Level 3 Interactivity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This involves the recall of more complex information (compared
			to levels 1 and 2) and allows the user an increased level of control
			over the lesson scenario through peripherals such as light pen,
			touch screen, track ball, or mouse. Video, graphics, or a
			combination of both is presented simulating the operation of a
			system, subsystem, or equipment to the user. The lesson scenario
			training material typically is complex and involves more frequent
			use of peripherals to affect a transfer of learning. Operation and
			maintenance procedures are normally practiced with level 3 scenarios
			and students may be required to alternate between multiple screens
			to keep pace with the lesson material. Multiple software branches
			(two to three levels) and rapid response are provided to support
			remediation. Emulations and simulations are an integral part of this
			presentation. This may also include complex developed graphics,
			and/or clip art, and video and audio clips.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Interactive_Multimedia_Instruction">
				<linktext>Interactive Multimedia Instruction</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Identification_Run">
		<glossterm>Identification Run</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Dry run over the target area by the leadplane to indicate an
			airtanker's flight path and target, while the air tanker pilot is
			observing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Igniter">
		<glossterm>Igniter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A pyrotechnic device specifically designed to initiate burning
			of a fuel mixture or propellant.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ignition_Component">
		<glossterm>Ignition Component</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). A
			rating of the probability that a firebrand will cause an actionable
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ignition_Energy">
		<glossterm>Ignition Energy</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Quantity of heat or electrical energy that must be absorbed by
			a substance to ignite and burn.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ignition_Factor">
		<glossterm>Ignition Factor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The conditions, subsequent actions, and sequence of events
			that bring a competent ignition source into contact with the
			materials first ignited. Also referred to as the cause of the
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ignition_Method">
		<glossterm>Ignition Method</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The means by which a fire is ignited, such as hand-held drip
			torch, helitorch, and backpack propane tanks.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ignition_Pattern">
		<glossterm>Ignition Pattern</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Manner in which a prescribed fire is ignited. The distance
			between ignition lines or points and the sequence of igniting them
			is determined by weather, fuel, topography, firing technique, and
			other factors which influence fire behavior and fire
			effects.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ignition_Probability">
		<glossterm>Ignition Probability</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Chance that a firebrand will cause an ignition when it lands
			on receptive fuels. (Syn. IGNITION INDEX)</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ignition_Time">
		<glossterm>Ignition Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Time between application of an ignition source and
			self-sustained combustion of a fuel.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ignition_Trigger">
		<glossterm>Ignition Trigger</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A causative agent for wildland fire. For example, human or
			lightning.)</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Impeller">
		<glossterm>Impeller</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Rotating part of a centrifugal pump which imparts energy to
			the liquid to be moved. For shearing purposes, the impeller is on a
			rotating shaft within the body of liquid.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Implementation_Plan">
		<glossterm>Implementation Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The design and definition of all the activities, resources,
			limitations, and contingencies required for successful wildland fire
			management.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Impulse">
		<glossterm>Impulse</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A term used in weather primarily to describe a weak
			disturbance that does not necessarily have an associated storm
			center or surface low. The disturbance usually does not create
			severe weather and is frequently associated with a marine air
			push.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="In-stand_Wind">
		<glossterm>In-stand Wind</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Wind speed within a stand at about eye level.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incendiary">
		<glossterm>Incendiary</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A burning compound or metal used to produce intense heat or
			flame, like a bomb.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incendiary_Device">
		<glossterm>Incendiary Device</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Contrivance designed and used to start a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incendiary_Fire">
		<glossterm>Incendiary Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire that is deliberately ignited under circumstances in
			which the person knows that the fire should not be ignited. An
			incendiary fire is not necessarily a fire that meets the legal
			definition of an arson fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident">
		<glossterm>Incident</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An occurrence either human-caused or natural phenomenon, that
			requires action or support by emergency service personnel to prevent
			or minimize loss of life or damage to property and/or natural
			resources.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Action_Plan">
		<glossterm>Incident Action Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Contains objectives reflecting the overall incident strategy
			and specific tactical actions and supporting information for the
			next operational period. The plan may be oral or written. When
			written, the plan may have a number of attachments, including:
			incident objectives, organization assignment list, division
			assignment, incident radio communication plan, medical plan, traffic
			plan, safety plan, and incident map. Formerly called shift
			plan.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IAP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Action_Plan">
				<linktext>Action Plan</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Base">
		<glossterm>Incident Base</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Location at the incident where the primary logistics functions
			are coordinated and administered. (Incident name or other designator
			will be added to the term Base.) The incident command post may be
			collocated with the base. There is only one Base per
			incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Business_Advisor">
		<glossterm>Incident Business Advisor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Liaison and advisor to the Agency Administrator or Area
			Commander and works directly for the Agency Administrator or Area
			Commander. Serves as a bridge to the Agency Administrator, Incident
			Management Team, and other incident support functions.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IBA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Command_Post">
		<glossterm>Incident Command Post</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Location at which primary command functions are executed. The
			ICP may be collocated with the incident base or other incident
			facilities.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ICP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Command_System">
		<glossterm>Incident Command System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A standardized on-scene emergency management concept
			specifically designed to allow its user(s) to adopt an integrated
			organizational structure equal to the complexity and demands of
			single or multiple incidents, without being hindered by
			jurisdictional boundaries.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ICS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Commander">
		<glossterm>Incident Commander</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for overall management of the
			incident and reports to the Agency Administrator for the agency
			having incident jurisdiction. This position may have one or more
			deputies assigned from the same agency or from an assisting
			agency(s).</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ICT1, ICT2, ICT3, ICT4, or ICT5</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Communications_Center">
		<glossterm>Incident Communications Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The location of the communications unit and the message
			center.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Communications_Manager">
		<glossterm>Incident Communications Manager</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for providing incident
			dispatch services and for receiving and transmitting radio and
			telephone messages to and among incident assigned personnel and
			reports to the Communications Unit Leader.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>INCM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Communications_Unit">
				<linktext>Communications Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Communications_Technician">
		<glossterm>Incident Communications Technician</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for the programming,
			tracking, installation, and maintenance of radio and telephone
			electronic communication equipment and system design for an
			incident, and reports to the Communications Unit Leader.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>COMT</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Communications_Unit">
				<linktext>Communications Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Management_Team">
		<glossterm>Incident Management Team</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The incident commander and appropriate general and command
			staff personnel assigned to an incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Medical_Specialist_Assistant">
		<glossterm>Incident Medical Specialist Assistant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This individual assists the IMS manager in managing the IMS
			program and provides direct emergency medical and occupational
			health care to incident personnel according to the protocols of
			their IMS program. Frequently, this person may manage a remote camp
			medical unit.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IMSA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Medical_Specialist_Manager">
		<glossterm>Incident Medical Specialist Manager</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This individual manages the IMS program on the incident and
			works for the medical unit leader (MEDL) if one is present. The IMS
			may also be a MEDL. This person must have successfully completed IMS
			assignments as an ISMT and IMSA, and the IMS training within their
			home region.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IMSM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Medical_Specialist_Program">
		<glossterm>Incident Medical Specialist Program</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An incident-based program to care for emergent and minor
			medical as well as common occupational health care problems of
			incident personnel. This program may be deployed to Type I and Type
			II incidents. Currently, this program is only available in three
			regions: Northwest (R6), Northern Rockies (R1) and Alaska (R10). In
			Alaska, the program is known as the Firemedic.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Medical_Specialist_Technician">
		<glossterm>Incident Medical Specialist Technician</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This individual provides direct emergency medical and
			occupational health care to incident personnel according to the
			protocols of their IMS program and works under the supervision of
			the IMS manager or IMS assistant.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IMST</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Meteorologist">
		<glossterm>Incident Meteorologist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A specially trained meteorologist who provides site specific
			weather forecasts and information at an incident. The individual
			works under the direction of the fire behavior analyst and the
			planning section chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IMET</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#All_Hazards_Meteorological_Response_System">
				<linktext>All Hazards Meteorological Response System</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Micro-Remote_Environmental_Monitoring_System">
				<linktext>Micro-Remote Environmental Monitoring
					System</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Objectives">
		<glossterm>Incident Objectives</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Statements of guidance and direction necessary for the
			selection of appropriate strategy(s), and the tactical direction of
			resources. Incident objectives are based upon agency administrators
			direction and constraints. Incident objectives must be achievable
			and measurable, yet flexible enough to allow for strategic and
			tactical alternatives.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Organization">
		<glossterm>Incident Organization</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Resources, together with a complement of overhead personnel,
			calculated to be sufficient to provide fire efficient incident
			management.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Overhead">
		<glossterm>Incident Overhead</glossterm>
		<glossdef>All supervisory positions described in the Incident Command
			System.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Qualifications_Card">
		<glossterm>Incident Qualifications Card</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A card issued to persons showing their incident management and
			trainee qualifications to fill specified fire management positions
			in an incident management organization.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Red Card</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Support_Organization">
		<glossterm>Incident Support Organization</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Includes any off-incident support provided to an incident.
			Examples would be agency dispatch centers, airports, mobilization
			centers, etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_Weather_Forecast">
		<glossterm>Incident Weather Forecast</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A special weather forecast for a specific incident prepared by
			a meteorologist on site at or near the incident area.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#General_Fire_Weather_Forecast">
				<linktext>General Fire Weather Forecast</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Spot_Weather_Forecast">
				<linktext>Spot Weather Forecast</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incident_with_Potential">
		<glossterm>Incident with Potential</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Wildland fire-related mishap that results in serious or
			non-serious injuries involving multiple personnel, near accident
			(which would have resulted in a serious injury or fatality), or
			substantial loss of property (less than $250,000). The mishap may be
			so complex and fraught with operational discrepancies that it has
			the potential to produce an accident, serious injury, or fatality
			given a similar environment or set of circumstances that existed at
			the time of the incident.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Near_Miss">
				<linktext>Near Miss</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Increaser">
		<glossterm>Increaser</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Increasing coupling used on hose, pump, or nozzles to permit
			connection of a larger size of hose.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Increment">
		<glossterm>Increment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any resource or grouping of resources on which individual
			status is maintained.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Incremental_Drop">
		<glossterm>Incremental Drop</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Air tanker drop in which tank doors are opened in sequence so
			that fire retardant cascades somewhat continuously.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Independent_Action">
		<glossterm>Independent Action</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire suppression activities by other than regular fire
			suppression organizations or a fire cooperator.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Independent_Crown_Fire">
		<glossterm>Independent Crown Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire that advances in the tree crowns alone, not requiring
			any energy from the surface fire to sustain combustion or movement.
			Also called running crown fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Indicated_Airspeed">
		<glossterm>Indicated Airspeed</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The speed of an aircraft as shown on its pitot static airspeed
			indicator. Calibrated to reflect standard atmosphere adiabatic
			compressible flow at sea level, uncorrected for airspeed system
			errors.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IAS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Indicator">
		<glossterm>Indicator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Visual remains at a fire scene revealing the fire’s progress
			and action.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Indicator_Categories">
		<glossterm>Indicator Categories</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Classification of indicators into a variety of categories
			based on how they are formed and the types of material they are
			found on.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Indirect_Attack">
		<glossterm>Indirect Attack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A method of suppression in which the control line is located
			some considerable distance away from the fire's active edge.
			Generally done in the case of a fast-spreading or high-intensity
			fire and to utilize natural or constructed firebreaks or fuelbreaks
			and favorable breaks in the topography. The intervening fuel is
			usually backfired; but occasionally the main fire is allowed to burn
			to the line, depending on conditions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Indirectly_Visible_Area">
		<glossterm>Indirectly Visible Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Ground, or the vegetation growing thereon, that is not
			directly visible to a fixed point lookout but lies at not more than
			a specified depth (commonly 300 feet, 91 meters) below the lookout's
			line of sight.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Inductor">
		<glossterm>Inductor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A control mechanism that allows a regulated quantity of foam
			concentrate to be introduced into the main hose line.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Industrial_Fire_Precaution_Level">
		<glossterm>Industrial Fire Precaution Level</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An application of fire danger rating to support regulation of
			contractors involved in land management activities for fire
			prevention purposes in the Pacific Northwest.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IFPL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Industry_Crew">
		<glossterm>Industry Crew</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire crew composed of mill, forestry, or construction
			workers.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Infrared">
		<glossterm>Infrared</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A heat detection system used for fire detection, mapping, and
			hotspot identification.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Thermal_Imagery">
				<linktext>Thermal Imagery</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Infrared_Groundlink">
		<glossterm>Infrared Groundlink</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A capability through the use of a special mobile ground
			station to receive air-to-ground IR imagery at an
			incident.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Inhibition">
		<glossterm>Inhibition</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Process of extinguishing fire by the use of an agent that
			interrupts the chemical reactions in the combustion
			process.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Inhibitor">
		<glossterm>Inhibitor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any agent which retards a chemical reaction.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Initial_Action">
		<glossterm>Initial Action</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The actions taken by the first resources to arrive at a
			wildfire or wildland fire use incident. Initial actions may be size
			up, patrolling, monitoring, holding action or aggressive initial
			attack.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Initial_Attack">
		<glossterm>Initial Attack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A planned response to a wildfire given the wildfire's
			potential fire behavior. The objective of initial attack is to stop
			the fire and put it out in a manner consistent with firefighter and
			public safety and values to be protected.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Initial_Attack_Crew">
		<glossterm>Initial Attack Crew</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Specially trained and equipped fire crew for initial attack on
			a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Initial_Attack_Fire">
		<glossterm>Initial Attack Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire that is generally contained by the attack units first
			dispatched, without a significant augmentation of reinforcements,
			within two hours after initial attack, and full control is expected
			within the first burning period.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IAF</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Initial_Attack_Incident_Commander">
		<glossterm>Initial Attack Incident Commander</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The incident commander at the time the first attack forces
			commence suppression work on a fire.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IAIC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Initial_Response">
		<glossterm>Initial Response</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Resources initially committed to an incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Inmate_Crew">
		<glossterm>Inmate Crew</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any fire crew composed of prison inmates or wards.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Inside_Diameter">
		<glossterm>Inside Diameter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The internal diameter of a tube, conductor, or coupling, as
			distinguished from its OD (Outside Diameter). Fire hose sizes are
			classified by a nominal internal diameter.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ID</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Instrument_Flight_Rules_Conditions">
		<glossterm>Instrument Flight Rules Conditions</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Weather conditions below the minimum for flight under Visual
			Flight Rules and therefore requiring the observance of instruments
			inside the aircraft for controlling flight; generally considered to
			be less than 1000' AGL and 3 miles distant.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IFR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Visual_Flight_Rules_Conditions">
				<linktext>Visual Flight Rules Conditions</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Instrument_Landing_System">
		<glossterm>Instrument Landing System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>System for airplane landing in which the pilot is guided by
			radio beams.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ILS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Instrument_Shelter">
		<glossterm>Instrument Shelter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Naturally or artificially ventilated structure, constructed to
			specifications and used to shield weather measuring instruments from
			direct sunshine and precipitation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Interactive_Multimedia_Instruction">
		<glossterm>Interactive Multimedia Instruction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A group of predominantly interactive, electronically delivered
			training. IMI products include instructional software and software
			management tools used in support of instructional programs. IMI
			products are teaching and management tools and may be used in
			combination or individually. Used individually, not all IMI products
			can be considered interactive, multimedia, or instructional.
			However, IMI products, when used in combination with one another,
			are interactive, multimedia, and instructional. IMI technology is
			one of the primary technologies to be used in distance
			learning.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IMI</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#IMI_Interactivity_Levels">
				<linktext>IMI Interactivity Levels</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Interagency_Resources_Representative">
		<glossterm>Interagency Resources Representative</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An individual who may be assigned to or requested by an
			incident to serve as the sending unit's representative to oversee
			the care and treatment of crews, overhead, and equipment assigned to
			an incident.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IARR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Interchangeable_Course">
		<glossterm>Interchangeable Course</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A course developed by an interagency, all-hazard subject
			matter expert group containing the same learning objectives and
			content as an NWCG developed course. Interchangeable course do not
			require equivalency determination by a using agency and may have
			multiple course codes and/or numbers. These courses will be
			incorporated into IQCS/IQS and credit will be given for the NWCG
			course.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Intermittent_Smoke">
		<glossterm>Intermittent Smoke</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Smoke which becomes visible only at intervals.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Internal_Load">
		<glossterm>Internal Load</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Load carried inside the fuselage structure of an
			aircraft.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Internal_Payload">
		<glossterm>Internal Payload</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Allowable aircraft cabin load, in pounds, with full fuel and
			pilot in calm air at standard atmosphere.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Inventoried_Resources">
		<glossterm>Inventoried Resources</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Assigned resources which have checked in at the
			incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Inversion">
		<glossterm>Inversion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Atmospheric inversion. The departure from the usual increase
			or decrease with altitude of the value of an atmospheric property.
			In fire management usage, nearly always refers to an increase in
			temperature with increasing height. Also, the layer through which
			this departure occurs (also called inversion layer.) The lowest
			altitude at which the departure is found is called the base of the
			inversion.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Atmospheric_Inversion">
				<linktext>Atmospheric Inversion</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Atmospheric_Inversion1">
				<linktext>Atmospheric Inversion</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Atmospheric_Stability">
				<linktext>Atmospheric Stability</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Stable_Layer_of_Air">
				<linktext>Stable Layer of Air</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Iron_Pipe_Thread">
		<glossterm>Iron Pipe Thread</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A tapered thread standard that is used for connecting various
			sizes of rigid pipe. This standard may be referred to as tapered
			iron pipe thread (TIPT), National pipe thread (NPT), iron pipe
			thread (IPT), or iron pipe standard thread (IPS). With tapered
			thread, the threads and pipe sealant perform the seal at the
			connection. This is opposed to straight thread connectors which use
			a gasket to form the seal.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>IPT</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Island">
		<glossterm>Island</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An unburned area within a fire perimeter.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Isobar">
		<glossterm>Isobar</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A line connecting points of equal atmospheric pressure on a
			weather map.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Isotherm">
		<glossterm>Isotherm</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A line connecting points of equal temperature on a weather
			map.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Isothermal_Layer">
		<glossterm>Isothermal Layer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Layer through which temperature remains constant with
			elevation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Jettison">
		<glossterm>Jettison</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Disposing of cargo, fuel, water or retardant overboard to
			lighten an aircraft or to improve its stability.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Job_Hazard_Analysis">
		<glossterm>Job Hazard Analysis</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A job hazard analysis identifies hazards associated with work
			projects and worksites, and identifies protective equipment or
			modified work procedures needed.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Joint_Information_Center">
		<glossterm>Joint Information Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A facility established as the central point of contact for
			news media and interest parties to coordinate incident information
			activities at the scene of the incident. Public information
			officials from all participating federal, state, and local agencies
			should collocate at the JIC.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>JIC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Joint_Information_System">
		<glossterm>Joint Information System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A system that integrates incident information and public
			affairs into a cohesive organization designed to provide consistent,
			coordinated, timely information during crisis or incident
			operations.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>JIS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Jump_Spot">
		<glossterm>Jump Spot</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Selected landing area for smokejumpers.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Jump_Suit">
		<glossterm>Jump Suit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Approved protection suit worn for smokejumping.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Jurisdiction">
		<glossterm>Jurisdiction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The range or sphere of authority. Public agencies have
			jurisdiction at an incident related to their legal responsibilities
			and authority for incident mitigation. Jurisdictional authority at
			an incident can be political/geographical (e.g., city, county, state
			or federal boundary lines), or functional (e.g., police department,
			health department, etc.).</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Multijurisdiction_Incident">
				<linktext>Multijurisdiction Incident</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Jurisdictional_Agency">
		<glossterm>Jurisdictional Agency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The agency having land and resource management responsibility
			for a specific geographical or functional area as provided by
			federal, state or local law.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Keetch-Byram_Drought_Index">
		<glossterm>Keetch-Byram Drought Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An estimate (0-800) of the amount of precipitation (in 100ths
			of inches) needed to bring the top 8 inches of soil back to
			saturation. A value of 0 is complete saturation of the soil, a value
			of 800 means 8.00 inches of precipitation would be needed for
			saturation. In the 1988 version of NFDRS, outputs of KBDI are used
			to adjust live and dead fuel loadings.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>KBDI</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Drought_Index">
				<linktext>Drought Index</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Kindling_Point">
		<glossterm>Kindling Point</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Lowest temperature at which sustained combustion can be
			initiated for a specified substance. Also called ignition
			temperature.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="KnockDown">
		<glossterm>KnockDown</glossterm>
		<glossdef>To reduce the flame or heat on the more vigorously burning
			parts of a fire edge.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Knot">
		<glossterm>Knot</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Nautical miles per hour, equal to 1.15 mph.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ladder_Fuels">
		<glossterm>Ladder Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fuels which provide vertical continuity between strata,
			thereby allowing fire to carry from surface fuels into the crowns of
			trees or shrubs with relative ease. They help initiate and assure
			the continuation of crowning.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Land_Resource_Management_Plan">
		<glossterm>Land/Resource Management Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A document prepared with public participation and approved by
			an agency administrator that provides general guidance and direction
			for land and resource management activities for an administrative
			area. The L/RMP identifies the need for fire’s role in a particular
			area and for a specific benefit. The objectives in the L/RMP provide
			the basis for the development of fire management objective and the
			fire management program in the designated area.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>L/RMP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Land_Occupancy_Fire">
		<glossterm>Land Occupancy Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire started as a result of land occupancy for agricultural
			purposes, industrial establishment, construction, maintenance and
			use of rights-of-way, and residences, except equipment use and
			smoking.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Land_Use_Plan">
		<glossterm>Land Use Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A set of decisions that establish management direction for
			land within an administrative area; an assimilation of
			land-use-plan-level decisions developed through the planning process
			regardless of the scale at which the decisions were
			developed.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lapse_Rate">
		<glossterm>Lapse Rate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Change of an atmospheric variable (temperature unless
			specified otherwise) with height.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Large_Aircraft">
		<glossterm>Large Aircraft</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Aircraft in which maximum certified gross weight at take-off
			exceeds 12,500 pounds.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Large_Fire">
		<glossterm>Large Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>For statistical purposes, a fire burning more than a specified
			area of land e.g., 300 acres.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Large_Fire-Day">
		<glossterm>Large Fire-Day</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In FireFamily Plus, a day with both a weather observation and
			at least one large (as defined by the user) fire.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire-Day">
				<linktext>Fire-Day</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Multiple_Fire-Day">
				<linktext>Multiple Fire-Day</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Large_Fire1">
		<glossterm>Large Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire burning with a size and intensity such that its
			behavior is determined by interaction between its own convection
			column and weather conditions above the surface.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lateral_Fire">
		<glossterm>Lateral Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Rate or spread and intensity of a fire usually falling
			somewhere in between advancing and backing with spread lateral to
			the main direction of fire travel. Also called: flanking
			fire.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Flank_Fire" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Flank Fire</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Leach">
		<glossterm>Leach</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Removal of soluble constituents from ashes or soil by
			percolation of water.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lead_Line">
		<glossterm>Lead Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Line or set of lines made of rope, webbing, or cable and used
			in helicopter external load operations; usually placed between a
			swivel or the cargo hook and the load.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lead_Plane">
		<glossterm>Lead Plane</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Aircraft with pilot used to make trial runs over the target
			area to check wind, smoke conditions, topography and to lead air
			tankers to targets and supervise their drops.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Leader">
		<glossterm>Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS title for an individual responsible for a task force,
			strike team, or functional unit.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Leaders_Intent">
		<glossterm>Leader's Intent</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A concise statement that outlines what individuals must know
			in order to be successful for a given assignment. The intent
			communicates three essential pieces of information: - Task – What is
			the goal or objective - Purpose – Why it is to be done - End state –
			How it should look when successfully completed</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Leadership">
		<glossterm>Leadership</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The art of providing purpose, direction, and motivation to a
			group of people in order to accomplish a mission and improve the
			organization. Leaders provide purpose by clearly communicating their
			intent and describing the desired end state of an assignment to
			their followers. Leaders provide direction by maintaining standards
			of performance for their followers. Leaders provide motivation by
			setting the example for their followers.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Leapfrog_Method">
		<glossterm>Leapfrog Method</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A system of organizing workers in fire suppression in which
			each crew member is assigned a specific task such as clearing or
			digging fireline on a specific section of control line, and when
			that task is completed, passes other workers in moving to a new
			assignment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Learning_Content_Management_System">
		<glossterm>Learning Content Management System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any system that keeps learner information, can launch and
			communicate with SCOs, and can interpret instructions that tell it
			which SCO comes next.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>LCMS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Shareable_Content_Object">
				<linktext>Shareable Content Object</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Learning_Objective">
		<glossterm>Learning Objective</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A description of the intended outcome of a training class,
			program, or evolution. The learning objective identifies the
			condition, the task, and the standard to which the student much
			achieve.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Task">
				<linktext>Task</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Learning_Objects">
		<glossterm>Learning Objects</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Reusable learning objects represent an alternative approach to
			content development. In this approach, content is broken down into
			chunks. From a pedagogical perspective, each chunk might play a
			specific role within an instructional design methodology. Such
			chunks are called learning objects. There is no standard for the
			size (or granularity) of a learning object. Larger learning objects
			are typically harder to reuse, and smaller learner objects save less
			work for those who reuse them. Normally the happy medium has been
			estimated as between five and fifteen minutes of learning material.
			The requirements for each chunk are: 1) Each chunk must be able to
			communicate with learning systems using a standardized method that
			does not depend on the system 2) What happens within a chunk is the
			chunk's business. 3) How a learner moves between chunks is
			controlled by the learning system. 4) Each chunk must have a
			description (metadata tag) that enables designers to search for and
			find the right chunk for the right job.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Shareable_Content_Object">
				<linktext>Shareable Content Object</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Legitimate_Smoke">
		<glossterm>Legitimate Smoke</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Smoke from any authorized use of fire (e.g., locomotive,
			industrial operations, permitted debris burning).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Level_of_Service">
		<glossterm>Level of Service</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Amount of fire prevention and fire suppression supplied; may
			be expressed several ways (e.g., percent of people or buildings
			protected, area protected, dollar value of property protected,
			firefighters per capita, water flow capability).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Liaison_Officer">
		<glossterm>Liaison Officer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for serving as the incident's
			point of contact for coordinating with agency representatives from
			assisting and cooperating agencies. Reports to the Incident
			Commander and is a member of the Command Staff. This position may
			have one or more assistants assigned.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>LOFR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Agency_Representative">
				<linktext>Agency Representative</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Life-Safety">
		<glossterm>Life-Safety</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Refers to the joint consideration of both the life and
			physical well-being of individuals.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lifting_Processes">
		<glossterm>Lifting Processes</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any of the processes that lead to upward vertical motion in
			the atmosphere. These processes may include low level convergence,
			heating or thermal convection, orographic lifting over the
			mountains, and frontal lifting.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Light_Fine_Fuels">
		<glossterm>Light Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fast-drying fuels, generally with a comparatively high surface
			area-to-volume ratio, which are less than 1/4-inch in diameter and
			have a timelag of 1 hour or less. These fuels readily ignite and are
			rapidly consumed by fire when dry.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Fine Fuels</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Light_Burn">
		<glossterm>Light Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Light_Wind">
		<glossterm>Light Wind</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Wind speed less than 7 mph (6 knots) measured at 20 feet above
			ground. At eye level, light winds are less than 3 mph (3
			knots).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lightning_Activity_Level">
		<glossterm>Lightning Activity Level</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). A
			number, on a scale of 1 to 6, which reflects frequency and character
			of cloud-to-ground lightning (forecasted or observed). The scale for
			1 to 5 is exponential, based on powers of 2 (i.e., LAL 3 indicates
			twice the lightning of LAL 2). LAL 6 is a special category for dry
			lightning and is closely equivalent to LAL 3 in strike
			frequency.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>LAL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lightning_Fire">
		<glossterm>Lightning Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Wildfire caused directly or indirectly by
			lightning.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lightning_Fire_Occurrence_Index">
		<glossterm>Lightning Fire Occurrence Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS).
			Numerical rating of the potential occurrence of lightning-caused
			fires.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lightning_Risk">
		<glossterm>Lightning Risk</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). A
			number related to the expected number of cloud-to-ground lightning
			strokes to which a protection unit is expected to be exposed during
			the rating period. The LR value used in the occurrence index
			includes an adjustment for lightning activity experienced during the
			previous day to account for possible holdover fires.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>LR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lightning_Risk_Scaling_Factor">
		<glossterm>Lightning Risk Scaling Factor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). Factor
			derived from local thunderstorm and lightning-caused fire records
			that adjusts predictions of the basic lightning fire occurrence
			model to local experience, accounting for factors not addressed
			directly by the model (e.g., susceptibility of local fuels to
			ignition by lightning, fuel continuity, topography, regional
			characteristics of thunderstorms).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lightning_Stroke_Counter">
		<glossterm>Lightning Stroke Counter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Electronic sensor used to record the number of lightning
			strokes within a predetermined range over a specified period of
			time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lightweight_Ignition_Source">
		<glossterm>Lightweight Ignition Source</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Objects that tend to rest on the surface of the materials
			first ignited. I.e., matches, cigarette butts, flat metal fragments,
			etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Limbing">
		<glossterm>Limbing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Removing branches from a felled or standing tree, or from
			brush.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Limited_Containment">
		<glossterm>Limited Containment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Halting of fire spread at the head, or that portion of the
			flanks of a prescribed fire that is threatening to exceed
			prescription criteria, and ensuring that this spread rate will not
			be encountered again; does not indicate mopup.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Line_Cutter">
		<glossterm>Line Cutter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire crew member in the progressive method of line
			construction who cuts and clears away brush, small saplings, vines,
			and other obstructions in the path of the fireline; usually equipped
			with ax or brush hook, or pulaski.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Line_Firing">
		<glossterm>Line Firing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Line_Holding">
		<glossterm>Line Holding</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Line_Ignition">
		<glossterm>Line Ignition</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Line_Officer">
		<glossterm>Line Officer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Managing officer, or designee, of the agency, division
			thereof, or jurisdiction having statutory responsibility for
			incident mitigation and management.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Agency_Administrator">
				<linktext>Agency Administrator</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Line_Scout">
		<glossterm>Line Scout</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A firefighter who determines the location of a fire
			line.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lined_Fire_Hose">
		<glossterm>Lined Fire Hose</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire hose with a smooth inner coating of rubber or plastic to
			reduce friction loss.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Liquid_Concentrate">
		<glossterm>Liquid Concentrate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Liquid phosphate fertilizers used as fire retardants, usually
			diluted three to five times prior to application.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>LC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Litter">
		<glossterm>Litter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The top layer of forest floor, composed of loose debris of
			dead sticks, branches, twigs, and recently fallen leaves or needles;
			little altered in structure by decomposition.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Duff">
				<linktext>Duff</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Humus">
				<linktext>Humus</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Little_Change">
		<glossterm>Little Change</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Insignificant change in wind speed, direction, and temperature
			(less than 5 degrees) and relative humidity (less than five
			percent), respectively. When used as a general statement in a
			long-range forecast, all four criteria apply.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Live_Burning">
		<glossterm>Live Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Live_Fuel_Moisture_Content">
		<glossterm>Live Fuel Moisture Content</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Ratio of the amount of water to the amount of dry plant
			material in living plants.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Live_Fuels">
		<glossterm>Live Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Living plants, such as trees, grasses, and shrubs, in which
			the seasonal moisture content cycle is controlled largely by
			internal physiological mechanisms, rather than by external weather
			influences.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Living Fuels</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Live_Herbaceous_Moisture_Content">
		<glossterm>Live Herbaceous Moisture Content</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Ratio of the amount of water to the amount of dry plant
			material in herbaceous plants, i.e., grasses and forbs.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Live_Line">
		<glossterm>Live Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Hose line filled with water under pressure and ready to
			use.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Charged_Line" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Charged Line</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Live_Reel">
				<linktext>Live Reel</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Live_Reel">
		<glossterm>Live Reel</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Hose line or reel on a fire engine, carried preconnected to
			the pump, ready for use without making connections to pump or
			attaching nozzle.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Live_Run">
		<glossterm>Live Run</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Indicates that the air tanker has the target in sight and will
			make a retardant drop on this run over the target.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Live_Woody_Moisture_Content">
		<glossterm>Live Woody Moisture Content</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Ratio of the amount of water to the amount of dry plant
			material in shrubs.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Load_Calculation_Form">
		<glossterm>Load Calculation Form</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An agency form used to calculate helicopter allowable
			payload.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Load_and_Hold">
		<glossterm>Load and Hold</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An order given to the airtanker pilot to pick up another load
			of retardant or water and hold at the reload base. The tanker is
			still committed to the fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Load_and_Return">
		<glossterm>Load and Return</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Order given to the air tanker pilot to pick up another load of
			fire retardant or water and return to the fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Loading_Pad">
		<glossterm>Loading Pad</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Concrete pad at a retardant base on which aircraft stand when
			being loaded.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Loadmaster">
		<glossterm>Loadmaster</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Individual responsible to the Deck Coordinator for the
			manifesting, loading and unloading of personnel, equipment and
			cargo.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Local_Agency">
		<glossterm>Local Agency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any agency having jurisdictional responsibility for all or
			part of an incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Local_Resource">
		<glossterm>Local Resource</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Resources within a dispatch center's area of
			responsibility.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Local_Responsibility_Area">
		<glossterm>Local Responsibility Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Lands on which neither the state nor the federal government
			has any legal responsibility for providing fire
			protection.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Local_Winds">
		<glossterm>Local Winds</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Winds which are generated over a comparatively small area by
			local terrain and weather. They differ from those which would be
			appropriate to the general pressure pattern.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#General_Winds">
				<linktext>General Winds</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Slope_Winds">
				<linktext>Slope Winds</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Logging_Debris">
		<glossterm>Logging Debris</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Unwanted tree parts (crowns, logs, uprooted stumps) remaining
			after harvest.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Activity_Fuels">
				<linktext>Activity Fuels</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Logistics_Section">
		<glossterm>Logistics Section</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS section responsible for providing facilities,
			services, and supplies in support of an incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Logistics_Section_Chief">
		<glossterm>Logistics Section Chief</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for supervising the Logistic
			Section. Reports to the Incident Commander and is a member of the
			General Staff. This position may have one or more deputies
			assigned.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>LSC1 or LSC2</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Logistics_Section">
				<linktext>Logistics Section</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Long-Range_Forecast">
		<glossterm>Long-Range Forecast</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire weather forecast for a period greater than five days in
			advance.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Long-Range_Spotting">
		<glossterm>Long-Range Spotting</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Large glowing firebrands are carried high into the convection
			column and then fall out downwind beyond the main fire starting new
			fires. Such spotting can easily occur 1/4 mile or more from the
			firebrand's source.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Long-Term_Fire_Danger">
		<glossterm>Long-Term Fire Danger</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The results of those factors in fire danger affecting
			long-term planning; involves consideration of past records and
			conditions and probable future trends.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Long-Term_Fire_Retardant">
		<glossterm>Long-Term Fire Retardant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Chemical that inhibits combustion primarily through chemical
			reactions between products of combustion and the applied chemicals,
			even after the water component has evaporated. Other chemical
			effects also may be achieved, such as film-forming and
			intumescence.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Longline">
		<glossterm>Longline</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A line or set of lines, usually in 50' increments, used in
			external load operations that allow the helicopter to place loads in
			areas in which the helicopter could not safely land.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lookout">
		<glossterm>Lookout</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A person designated to detect and report fires from a vantage
			point.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lookouts_Communications_Escape_Routes_and_Safety_Zones">
		<glossterm>Lookout(s), Communication(s), Escape Route(s), and Safety
			Zone(s)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Elements of a safety system used by fire fighters to routinely
			assess their current situation with respect to wildland firefighting
			hazards.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>LCES</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lookout1">
		<glossterm>Lookout</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A location from which fires can be detected and
			reported.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lookout2">
		<glossterm>Lookout</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire crew member assigned to observe the fire and warn the
			crew when there is danger of becoming trapped.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lookout_Dispatcher">
		<glossterm>Lookout Dispatcher</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person combining the functions of lookout and
			dispatcher.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lookout_Firefighter">
		<glossterm>Lookout Firefighter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person combining the functions of lookout and
			firefighter.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lookout_Patrol">
		<glossterm>Lookout Patrol</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person who travels along ridges or other vantage points to
			discover, detect, report, and suppress fires.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lookout_Point">
		<glossterm>Lookout Point</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Vantage point selected for fire detection or
			observation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lookout_Tower">
		<glossterm>Lookout Tower</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Structure that elevates a person above nearby obstructions to
			sight for fires; generally capped by some sort of house or
			cupola.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lopping">
		<glossterm>Lopping</glossterm>
		<glossdef>After felling, cutting branches, tops, and unwanted boles into
			lengths such that resultant logging debris will lie close to the
			ground.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lopping_and_Scattering">
		<glossterm>Lopping and Scattering</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Lopping logging debris and spreading it more or less evenly
			over the ground.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Lost_Line">
		<glossterm>Lost Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any part of a fireline rendered useless by a breakover of the
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Low">
		<glossterm>Low</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area of relatively low atmospheric pressure in which winds
			tend to move in a counterclockwise direction, spiraling in toward
			the low’s center.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Low_Expansion">
		<glossterm>Low Expansion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Foam with an expansion between 1:1 and 20:1.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Macro_Scale_Indicators">
		<glossterm>Macro Scale Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Large single indicators or overall patterns of indicators that
			are readily visible from a distance.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Macroclimate">
		<glossterm>Macroclimate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>General large-scale climate of a large area or country as
			distinguished from smaller scale mesoclimate and
			microclimate.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Main_Ridge">
		<glossterm>Main Ridge</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Prominent ridgeline separating river or creek drainages.
			Usually has numerous smaller ridges (spur) extending outward from
			both sides.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Major_Disaster">
		<glossterm>Major Disaster</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any natural catastrophe or, regardless of cause, any fire,
			flood, or explosion, in any part of the United States, which in the
			determination of the President causes damage of sufficient severity
			and magnitude to warrant major disaster assistance.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Major_Repair_Aviation">
		<glossterm>Major Repair (Aviation)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A repair (1) that, if improperly done, might appreciably
			affect weight, balance, structural strength, or other qualities
			affecting airworthiness or (2) that is not done according to
			accepted practices or cannot be done by elementary
			operations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Major_Stationary_Sources">
		<glossterm>Major Stationary Sources</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Male_Coupling">
		<glossterm>Male Coupling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An externally threaded hose nipple which fits in the thread of
			a female (internally threaded) swivel coupling of the same pitch and
			diameter. Nozzles attach to this type of coupling.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Management_Action_Points">
		<glossterm>Management Action Points</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Geographic points on the ground or specific points in time
			where an escalation or alternative of management actions is
			warranted. These points are defined and the management actions to be
			taken are clearly described in an approved Wildland Fire
			Implementation Plan (WFIP) or Prescribed Fire Plan. Timely
			implementation of the actions when the fire reaches the action point
			is generally critical to successful accomplishment of the
			objectives. Also called Trigger Points.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Trigger Points</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Management_by_Objectives">
		<glossterm>Management by Objectives</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In ICS, this is a top-down management activity which involves
			a three-step process to achieve the incident goal. The steps are:
			establishing the incident objectives, selection of appropriate
			strategy(s) to achieve the objectives; and the tactical direction
			associated with the selected strategy. Tactical direction includes:
			selection of tactics, selection of resources, resource assignments
			and performance monitoring.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Managers">
		<glossterm>Managers</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Individuals within ICS organizational units that are assigned
			specific managerial responsibilities, e.g., staging area manager or
			camp manager.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Manual_Weather_Station">
		<glossterm>Manual Weather Station</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A non-telemetered weather station that provides one
			observation every 24 hours for manual entry into WIMS.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Automatic_Weather_Station">
				<linktext>Automatic Weather Station</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Manually_Regulated">
		<glossterm>Manually Regulated</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A proportioning method or device that requires a manual
			adjustment to maintain a desired mix ratio over a changing range of
			water flows and pressures.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Marine_Air">
		<glossterm>Marine Air</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Air which has a high moisture content and the temperature
			characteristics of an ocean surface due to extensive exposure to
			that surface. An intrusion of marine air will moderate fire
			conditions. Absence of marine air in coastal areas may lead to more
			severe fire danger.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Marine_Climate">
		<glossterm>Marine Climate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Regional climate under the predominant influence of the sea,
			that is, a climate characterized by marine air; the opposite of a
			continental climate.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Maritime_Air">
		<glossterm>Maritime Air</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Air which has assumed high moisture content and the
			temperature characteristics of a water surface due to extensive
			exposure to that surface.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mass_Arsonist">
		<glossterm>Mass Arsonist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An offender who sets three or more fires at the same location
			during a limited period of time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mass_Fire">
		<glossterm>Mass Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire resulting from many simultaneous ignitions that
			generates a high level of energy output.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Master_Fire_Chronology">
		<glossterm>Master Fire Chronology</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Chronological listing of the dates of fires documented in a
			designated area, the dates being corrected by crossdating. Size of
			the area must be specified. Also called composite fire
			interval.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Material_First_Ignited">
		<glossterm>Material First Ignited</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The fuel that is first set on fire by the heat of ignition; to
			be meaningful, both a type of material and form of material should
			be identified.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mathematical_Model">
		<glossterm>Mathematical Model</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A model that is a quantitative and mathematical representation
			or simulation which attempts to describe the characteristics or
			relationship of physical events.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Model">
				<linktext>Model</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mattock">
		<glossterm>Mattock</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Hand tool with a narrow hoeing surface at one end of the blade
			and a pick or cutting blade at the other end; used for digging and
			grubbing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Maximum_Certified_Gross_Weight">
		<glossterm>Maximum Certified Gross Weight</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Absolute maximum allowable gross weight for an aircraft as
			established by the manufacturer and approved by the FAA.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Maximum_Computed_Gross_Weight">
		<glossterm>Maximum Computed Gross Weight</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Computed gross weight for an aircraft, obtained from the
			appropriate performance chart, which is the maximum gross weight
			appropriate to the applicable circumstance of configuration and/or
			environmental conditions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Maximum_Dry_Bulb_Temperature">
		<glossterm>Maximum Dry Bulb Temperature</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The highest value for dry bulb temperature measured at the
			observation site during the preceding 24-hour period.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Minimum_Dry_Bulb_Temperature">
				<linktext>Minimum Dry Bulb Temperature</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Maximum_Management_Area">
		<glossterm>Maximum Management Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The maximum geographic limits of spread within which a
			wildland fire use fire is allowed to spread.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>MMA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Maximum_Relative_Humidity">
		<glossterm>Maximum Relative Humidity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The highest value for relative humidity measured at the
			observation site during the preceding 24-hour period.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Minimum_Relative_Humidity">
				<linktext>Minimum Relative Humidity</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="May_Day">
		<glossterm>May Day</glossterm>
		<glossdef>International distress signal/call. When repeated three times
			it indicates imminent and grave danger and that immediate assistance
			is required.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mcleod">
		<glossterm>Mcleod</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A combination hoe or cutting tool and rake, with or without
			removable blades.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mean_Fire_Return_Interval">
		<glossterm>Mean Fire Return Interval</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Arithmetic average of all fire intervals in a given area over
			a given time.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Fire Occurrence</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mean_Sea_Level">
		<glossterm>Mean Sea Level</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Average height of the surface of the sea for all stages of the
			tide over a 19-year period. NOTE: when the abbreviation MSL is used
			in conjunction with a number of feet, it implies altitude above sea
			level (e.g., 1000 feet MSL).</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>MSL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Measured_Woody_Fuel_Moisture">
		<glossterm>Measured Woody Fuel Moisture</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Moisture content of the small branch wood and foliage of live
			woody plants, expressed as a percentage of the oven dry weight of
			the sample, collected monthly and used to supplement NFDRS modeled
			outputs.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Woody_Fuel_Moisture">
				<linktext>Woody Fuel Moisture</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Medical_Director">
		<glossterm>Medical Director</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A physician who assumes the ultimate responsibility for the
			patient care aspects of the incident EMS program.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Medical_Unit">
		<glossterm>Medical Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Functional unit within the logistics section that is
			responsible for the emergency medical and occupational health care
			of incident personnel. Some incident management teams have placed
			this unit under safety.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Medical_Unit_Leader">
		<glossterm>Medical Unit Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the Medical Unit.
			Reports to the Service Branch Director or Logistics Section
			Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>MEDL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Medical_Unit">
				<linktext>Medical Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Medium-range_Forecast">
		<glossterm>Medium-range Forecast</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A forecast for a period extending from about two days to five
			days or a week in advance; there are no absolute limits to the
			period embraced by this definition.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Medium_Expansion">
		<glossterm>Medium Expansion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Foam with an expansion between 21:1 and 200:1.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Medivac">
		<glossterm>Medivac</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Mobile medical treatment and transportation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Message_Center">
		<glossterm>Message Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The message center is part of the incident communications
			center and is collocated or placed adjacent to it. It receives,
			records, and routes information about resources reporting to the
			incident, resource status, and administrative and tactical
			traffic.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Methodology">
		<glossterm>Methodology</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A set of standardized procedures and practices that have been
			peer-reviewed and have received general acceptance by the
			profession.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Micro-Remote_Environmental_Monitoring_System">
		<glossterm>Micro-Remote Environmental Monitoring System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Mobile weather monitoring station. Each unit consists of a
			shipping container, solar panel, battery, temperature/relative
			humidity sensor, wind mast, wind direction/speed sensor, data logger
			and radio. A Micro-REMS usually accompanies an incident
			meteorologist and ATMU to an incident.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>Micro-REMS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Incident_Meteorologist">
				<linktext>Incident Meteorologist</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Micro_Scale_Indicators">
		<glossterm>Micro Scale Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Small individual indicators and patterns that are not easily
			observable without close observation or magnification.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mid-Flame_Windspeed">
		<glossterm>Mid-Flame Windspeed</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The speed of the wind measured at the midpoint of the flames,
			considered to be most representative of the speed of the wind that
			is affecting fire behavior.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Military_Operations_Area">
		<glossterm>Military Operations Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Military Operations Area found on aeronautical
			charts.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>MOA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Military_Time">
		<glossterm>Military Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The 24-hour clock system where midnight is 2400, one minute
			after midnight is 0001 and progresses to 2400 daily.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Millibar">
		<glossterm>Millibar</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A unit of pressure equal to a force of 1,000 dynes per square
			centimeter. (A dyne is the force that would give a free mass of one
			gram an acceleration of one centimeter per second per
			second.)</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mineral_Ash">
		<glossterm>Mineral Ash</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The residue of mineral matter left after complete combustion
			of wood (wood ash) or other organic material; consists largely of
			oxides, carbonates, and phosphates of Ca, K and Mg, together with
			other compounds.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mineral_Soil">
		<glossterm>Mineral Soil</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Soil layers below the predominantly organic horizons; soil
			with little combustible material.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Minimum_Cost_Suppression_Alternative">
		<glossterm>Minimum Cost Suppression Alternative</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The alternative that achieves incident objectives, consistent
			with priority for firefighter and public safety, and is least
			expensive when considering expected costs for fire suppression and
			emergency stabilization and/or rehabilitation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Minimum_Dry_Bulb_Temperature">
		<glossterm>Minimum Dry Bulb Temperature</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The lowest value for dry bulb temperature measured at the
			observation site during the preceding 24-hour period.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Maximum_Dry_Bulb_Temperature">
				<linktext>Maximum Dry Bulb Temperature</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Minimum_Impact_Suppression_Techniques">
		<glossterm>Minimum Impact Suppression Techniques</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The application of strategy and tactics that effectively meet
			suppression and resource objectives with the least environmental,
			cultural and social impacts.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>MIST</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Minimum_Relative_Humidity">
		<glossterm>Minimum Relative Humidity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The lowest value for relative humidity measured at the
			observation site during the preceding 24-hour period.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Maximum_Relative_Humidity">
				<linktext>Maximum Relative Humidity</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Miscellaneous_Fire">
		<glossterm>Miscellaneous Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire of known cause that cannot be properly classified into
			any of the eight standard causes of fires.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mitigation">
		<glossterm>Mitigation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Those activities implemented prior to, during, or after an
			incident which are designed to reduce or eliminate risks to persons
			or property that lessen the actual or potential effects or
			consequences of an incident. Mitigation measures can include efforts
			to educate governments, businesses, and the general public on
			measures they can take to reduce loss and injury and are often
			informed by lessons learned from prior incidents.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mitigation_Actions">
		<glossterm>Mitigation Actions</glossterm>
		<glossdef>On-the-ground actions that serve to increase the defensibility
			of the Maximum Manageable Area (MMA); check, direct, or delay the
			spread of fire; and minimize threats to life, property, and
			resources. Mitigation actions may include mechanical and physical
			non-fire tasks, specific fire applications, and limited suppression
			actions. These actions will be used to construct firelines, reduce
			excessive fuel concentrations, reduce vertical fuel continuity,
			create fuel breaks or barriers around critical or sensitive sites or
			resources, create "black lines" through controlled burnouts, and to
			limit fire spread and behavior.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mix_Ratio">
		<glossterm>Mix Ratio</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ratio of liquid foam concentrate to water, usually
			expressed as a percent.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mixing">
		<glossterm>Mixing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A random exchange of air parcels on any scale from the
			molecular to the largest eddy.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mixing_Chamber">
		<glossterm>Mixing Chamber</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A tube, constructed with deflectors or baffles, that mixes
			foam solution and air to produce tiny, uniform bubbles in a short
			distance (1 to 2 ft).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mixing_Height">
		<glossterm>Mixing Height</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Measured from the surface upward, the height to which
			relatively vigorous mixing occurs due to convection. Also called
			mixing depth.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mixing_Layer">
		<glossterm>Mixing Layer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That portion of the atmosphere from the surface up to the
			mixing height. This is the layer of air, usually below a stable
			layer, within which pollutants are mixed by turbulence and
			diffusion. Also called mixed layer.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Transport_Wind_Speed">
				<linktext>Transport Wind Speed</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Ventilation_Factor">
				<linktext>Ventilation Factor</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mixmaster">
		<glossterm>Mixmaster</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The person in charge of fire retardant mixing operations with
			responsibility for quantity and quality of the slurry and for the
			loading of aircraft.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mobile_Radio">
		<glossterm>Mobile Radio</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A two way radio unit on mobile apparatus (instead of base
			stations), usually semi-permanently attached to the
			apparatus.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mobile_Weather_Unit_Forecast">
		<glossterm>Mobile Weather Unit Forecast</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A special weather forecast for a specific incident prepared by
			a meteorologist on site at or near the incident area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mobile_Weather_Unit_Forecast1">
		<glossterm>Mobile Weather Unit Forecast</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A special fire weather forecast for a specific fire prepared
			by a meteorologist on site at or near the fire area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mobilization">
		<glossterm>Mobilization</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The process and procedures used by all organizations, federal,
			state and local, for activating, assembling, and transporting all
			resources that have been requested to respond to or support an
			incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mobilization_Center">
		<glossterm>Mobilization Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An off-incident location at which emergency service personnel
			and equipment are temporarily located pending assignment, release,
			or reassignment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mobilization_Guide">
		<glossterm>Mobilization Guide</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A written description of procedures used by federal, state,
			and local organizations for activating, assembling, and transporting
			resources that have been requested to respond to or support an
			incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Model">
		<glossterm>Model</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A simplified or generalized representation of reality; a
			description, analogy, picture, or hypothesis to help visualize
			something that cannot be directly observed.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Conceptual_Model">
				<linktext>Conceptual Model</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Mathematical_Model">
				<linktext>Mathematical Model</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Model_Arson_Law">
		<glossterm>Model Arson Law</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Model legislation, recommended by the Fire Marshals'
			Association of North America and adopted in most states, dealing
			with the subject of arson.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Model_Fireworks_Law">
		<glossterm>Model Fireworks Law</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Model legislation recommended by the Fire Marshals'
			Association of North America and adopted by many states, regulating
			display of fireworks.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Moderate_Burn">
		<glossterm>Moderate Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Modified_Suppression">
		<glossterm>Modified Suppression</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Modular_Airborne_Firefighting_System">
		<glossterm>Modular Airborne Firefighting System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A manufactured unit consisting of five interconnecting tanks,
			a control pallet, and a nozzle pallet, with a capacity of 3,000
			gallons, designed to be rapidly mounted inside an unmodified C-130
			(Hercules) cargo aircraft for use in cascading retardant chemicals
			on wildfires.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>MAFFS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Moist_Adiabatic_Lapse_Rate">
		<glossterm>Moist Adiabatic Lapse Rate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Rate of decrease of temperature with increasing height of an
			air parcel lifted at saturation via adiabatic process through an
			atmosphere in hydrostatic equilibrium. Rate varies according to the
			amount of water vapor in the parcel and is usually between 2.0 and
			5.0 degrees F per 1000 feet (3.6 and 9.2 degrees C per 1000
			meters).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Moisture_of_Extinction">
		<glossterm>Moisture of Extinction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The fuel moisture content, weighed over all the fuel classes,
			at which the fire will not spread. Also called extinction moisture
			content (EMC).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Monitor">
		<glossterm>Monitor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A turret-type nozzle usually mounted on an engine.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Monitoring">
		<glossterm>Monitoring</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The orderly collection, analysis, and interpretation of
			environmental data to evaluate management's progress toward meeting
			objectives, and to identify changes in natural systems. Monitoring
			is also conducted on wildland fires to observe fire effects, fire
			behavior, or both. For example, the work done by Fire Effects
			Monitor (FEMO) or Field Observer (FOBS) positions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Monsoon_Climate">
		<glossterm>Monsoon Climate</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Climate characterized by (a) a long winter-spring dry season
			which includes a "cold season" followed by a short "hot season"
			immediately preceding the rains, (b) a summer and early autumn rainy
			season which is usually very wet (but highly variable from year to
			year), and (c) a secondary maximum of temperature immediately after
			the rainy season.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mop_Up">
		<glossterm>Mop Up</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Extinguishing or removing burning material near control lines,
			felling snags, and trenching logs to prevent rolling after an area
			has burned, to make a fire safe, or to reduce residual
			smoke.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mop_Up_Crew">
		<glossterm>Mop Up Crew</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A portion or all of a regular fire crew assigned to mop up
			work after the fire or a portion of the fire has been contained or
			controlled.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mop_Up_Time">
		<glossterm>Mop Up Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Elapsed time from containment or control of a fire until mop
			up is complete.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mosaic">
		<glossterm>Mosaic</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The intermingling of plant communities and their successional
			stages in such a manner as to give the impression of an interwoven
			design.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Most_Efficient_Level">
		<glossterm>Most Efficient Level</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The fire management program budget level that results in the
			minimum cost plus net value change.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>MEL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Move-up">
		<glossterm>Move-up</glossterm>
		<glossdef>System of redistributing remaining personnel and equipment
			following dispatch of other forces among a network of fire stations
			to provide the best possible response within the fire department's
			direct protection area in the event of additional calls for
			emergency assistance.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Moveup_Method">
		<glossterm>Moveup Method</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Progressive method of fireline construction on a wildfire
			without changing relative positions in the line. Work is begun with
			a suitable space between workers; whenever one worker overtakes
			another, all of those ahead move one space forward and resume work
			on the uncompleted part of the line. The last worker does not move
			ahead until work is completed in his/her space. Forward progress of
			the crew is coordinated by a crew boss.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Bumpup Method</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Multi-Agency_Coordination">
		<glossterm>Multi-Agency Coordination</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A generalized term which describes the functions and
			activities of representatives of involved agencies and/or
			jurisdictions who come together to make decisions regarding the
			prioritizing of incidents, and the sharing and use of critical
			resources. The MAC organization is not a part of the on-scene ICS
			and is not involved in developing incident strategy or
			tactics.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>MAC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Multi-Agency_Coordination_System">
		<glossterm>Multi-Agency Coordination System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>MACS provides the framework to support coordination for
			incident prioritization, critical resource allocation, communication
			systems integration, and information coordination. MACS components
			include facilities, equipment, emergency operating centers EOCs),
			specific multi-agency coordination entities, personnel, procedures,
			and communications.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>MACS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Multi-Agency_Incident">
		<glossterm>Multi-Agency Incident</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An incident where one or more agencies assist a jurisdictional
			agency or agencies. May be single or unified command.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Jurisdiction">
				<linktext>Jurisdiction</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Multicom">
		<glossterm>Multicom</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A VHF/AM aircraft radio frequency (122.9 MHz) assigned by the
			FAA for use in air-to-air communications.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Multijurisdiction_Incident">
		<glossterm>Multijurisdiction Incident</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An incident requiring action from multiple agencies that have
			a statutory responsibility for incident mitigation. In ICS these
			incidents will be managed under unified command.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Jurisdiction">
				<linktext>Jurisdiction</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Multiple_Fire-Day">
		<glossterm>Multiple Fire-Day</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In FireFamily Plus, a day with both a weather observation and
			a number of fires equal to or greater than that determined by the
			user to be a significant workload.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire-Day">
				<linktext>Fire-Day</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Large_Fire-Day">
				<linktext>Large Fire-Day</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Multiple_Fire_Situation">
		<glossterm>Multiple Fire Situation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>High fire frequency over a short period of time in an
			administrative unit, usually overtaxing the normal initial attack
			capability of the unit.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Multiple_Points_of_Origin">
		<glossterm>Multiple Points of Origin</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Two or more separate points of fire origins at a fire scene;
			strong indication of arson.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mutual_Aid">
		<glossterm>Mutual Aid</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Assistance in firefighting or investigation by fire agencies,
			without regard for jurisdictional boundaries.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mutual_Aid_Agreement">
		<glossterm>Mutual Aid Agreement</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Written agreement between agencies and/or jurisdictions in
			which they agree to assist one another upon request, by furnishing
			personnel and equipment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Mutual_Threat_Zone">
		<glossterm>Mutual Threat Zone</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A geographical area between two or more jurisdictions into
			which those agencies would respond on initial attack. Also called
			mutual response zone or initial action zone.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="NESDIS_ID">
		<glossterm>NESDIS ID</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An 8-character identifier assigned by NESDIS that becomes the
			RAWS identification number for use with the GOES
			satellite.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="NWCG_Standard">
		<glossterm>NWCG Standard</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A defined behavior, action, process, or equipment type, agreed
			upon by the National Wildfire Coordinating Group for wildland fire
			performance, and is necessary to meet consistent, interagency fire
			management activities.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#National_Wildfire_Coordinating_Group">
				<linktext>National Wildfire Coordinating Group</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Napalm">
		<glossterm>Napalm</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An incendiary mixture with a jelling agent used in
			flamethrowers and bombs.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Advanced_Resources_Technology_Center">
		<glossterm>National Advanced Resources Technology Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Multi-agency training facility at Pinal Air Park, Marana,
			Arizona, which specializes in presentation of national-level fire
			management training courses.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NARTC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Ambient_Air_Quality_Standards">
		<glossterm>National Ambient Air Quality Standards</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A legal limit on the level of atmospheric contamination. The
			level is established as the concentration limits needed to protect
			all of the public against adverse effects on public health and
			welfare, with an adequate safety margin. Primary standards are those
			related to health effects. Secondary standards are designed to
			protect the public welfare from effects such as visibility
			reduction, soiling, material damage and nuisances.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NAAQS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Association_of_State_Foresters">
		<glossterm>National Association of State Foresters</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An organization consisting of the State Forester from each
			state and territory which promotes cooperation in forestry matters
			between the states and territories, the federal government and
			private forestry groups. It promotes legislation, programs and
			activities which will advance the practice of forestry and use of
			forest products.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NASF</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry
		id="National_Environmental_Satellite_Data_and_Information_Service">
		<glossterm>National Environmental Satellite, Data and Information
			Service</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
			Agency.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NESDIS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Fire_Codes">
		<glossterm>National Fire Codes</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The collected technical fire protection standards prepared by
			various committees of the National Fire Protection Association and
			published annually in 15 volumes.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NFC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Fire_Danger_Rating_System">
		<glossterm>National Fire Danger Rating System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A uniform fire danger rating system that focuses on the
			environmental factors that control the moisture content of
			fuels.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NFDRS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire_Danger_Rating_System">
				<linktext>Fire Danger Rating System</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Fire_Protection_Association">
		<glossterm>National Fire Protection Association</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A private, non-profit organization dedicated to reducing fire
			hazards and improving fire service.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NFPA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Fire_Protection_Association_Standards">
		<glossterm>National Fire Protection Association Standards</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Standards of the National Fire Protection Association are
			frequently adopted by insurance agencies such as the National Board
			of Fire Underwriters as a basis for their regulations and used as a
			guide for municipal, state, or provincial laws, ordinances, and
			regulations.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NFPA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Forest_Lands">
		<glossterm>National Forest Lands</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Public lands, generally forest, range, or other wildland,
			administered by the Forest Service, USDA.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Forest_System">
		<glossterm>National Forest System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Consists of all national forest lands, the national grasslands
			and land utilization projects administered under title III of the
			Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act, and other interests as defined in
			Section 9 of the National Forest Management Act of 1976.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Interagency_Coordination_Center">
		<glossterm>National Interagency Coordination Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Coordinates allocation of resources to one or more
			coordination centers or major fires within the nation. Located in
			Boise, Idaho.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NICC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Interagency_Fire_Center">
		<glossterm>National Interagency Fire Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A facility located at Boise, Idaho, jointly operated by
			several federal agencies, dedicated to coordination, logistical
			support, and improved weather services in support of fire management
			operations throughout the United States.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NIFC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Interagency_Fire_Management_Integrated_Database">
		<glossterm>National Interagency Fire Management Integrated
			Database</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The archive of daily weather observations from
			WIMS.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NIFMID</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Interagency_Incident_Management_System">
		<glossterm>National Interagency Incident Management System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An NWCG developed program consisting of five subsystems which
			collectively provide a total systems approach to all-risk incident
			management. The subsystems are: The Incident Command System,
			Training, Qualifications and Certification, Supporting Technologies,
			and Publications Management.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NIIMS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Park">
		<glossterm>National Park</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A federal reservation administered by the National Park
			Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior in order to conserve
			unique scenery, flora and fauna, and any natural and historic
			objects within its boundaries for public enjoyment in
			perpetuity.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Pipe_Straight_Hose_Thread">
		<glossterm>National Pipe Straight Hose Thread</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Also known as National Pipe Straight Mechanical (NPSM) thread.
			This is a straight (nontapered) thread standard with the same
			threads per inch as the appropriate size iron pipe thread. It
			requires a gasket to seal and is the thread standard used by most
			U.S. industry.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NPSH</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Resource_Lands">
		<glossterm>National Resource Lands</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Public lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management,
			U.S. Department of the Interior.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NRL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Response_Plan">
		<glossterm>National Response Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A plan that integrates federal government domestic prevention,
			preparedness, response, and recovery plans into one all-discipline,
			all-hazard plan.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Standard_Thread">
		<glossterm>National Standard Thread</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Abbreviated (NH) for national hose. Specifically defined screw
			thread used on fire hose couplings.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NH</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Wildfire_Coordinating_Group">
		<glossterm>National Wildfire Coordinating Group</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A group formed under the direction of the Secretaries of the
			Interior and Agriculture to improve the coordination and
			effectiveness of wildland fire activities and provide a forum to
			discuss, recommend appropriate action, or resolve issues and
			problems of substantive nature.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NWCG</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#NWCG_Standard">
				<linktext>NWCG Standard</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="National_Wildlife_Refuge_System">
		<glossterm>National Wildlife Refuge System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>All lands, waters and interests therein administered by the
			Fish and Wildlife Service for the protection and conservation of
			fish and wildlife, including those that are threatened with
			extinction.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Native_Species">
		<glossterm>Native Species</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A species which is a part of the original fauna or flora of
			the area in question.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Natural_Barrier">
		<glossterm>Natural Barrier</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any area where lack of flammable material obstructs the spread
			of wildfires.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Natural_Fuels">
		<glossterm>Natural Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fuels resulting from natural processes and not directly
			generated or altered by land management practices.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Activity_Fuels">
				<linktext>Activity Fuels</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Near_Miss">
		<glossterm>Near Miss</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any potential accident which, through prevention, education,
			hazard reduction, or luck, did not occur.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Net_Value_Change">
		<glossterm>Net Value Change</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The sum of the changes in the value of natural resources
			affected by a fire. The basis for computing NVC is each resource's
			fire-induced value change (pluses and minuses) as computed and
			expressed on a per unit basis.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NVC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Neutral_Atmosphere">
		<glossterm>Neutral Atmosphere</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Condition in which temperature decrease with increasing
			altitude is equal to the dry adiabatic lapse rate (i.e., the
			atmosphere neither aids nor hinders large-scale vertical
			motion).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Night_Aviation">
		<glossterm>Night (Aviation)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The time between the end of evening civil twilight and the
			beginning of morning civil twilight, as published in the American
			Air Almanac, converted to local time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Nitrogen_Dioxide">
		<glossterm>Nitrogen Dioxide</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The result of nitric oxide combining with oxygen in the
			atmosphere. A major component of photochemical smog.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NO2</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Nitrogen_Oxide">
		<glossterm>Nitrogen Oxide</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Product of combustion from transportation and stationary
			sources and a major contributor to acid deposition and the formation
			of ground level ozone in the troposphere.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NO</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Nomex">
		<glossterm>Nomex ®</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Trade name for a fire resistant synthetic material used in the
			manufacturing of flight suits and pants and shirts used by
			firefighters. Aramid is the generic name.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Non-attainment_Area">
		<glossterm>Non-attainment Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area identified by an air quality regulatory agency through
			ambient air monitoring (and designated by the Environmental
			Protection Agency), that presently exceeds federal ambient air
			standards.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Noncommercial_Forest_Land">
		<glossterm>Noncommercial Forest Land</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Forest land incapable of yielding crops of commercially useful
			wood because of adverse site conditions, or productive forest land
			withdrawn from commercial timber use through statute or
			administrative regulation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Nonflammable">
		<glossterm>Nonflammable</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Material unlikely to burn when exposed to flame under most
			conditions.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Flammable">
				<linktext>Flammable</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Nonprecision_Approach_Procedure">
		<glossterm>Nonprecision Approach Procedure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Standard aircraft instrument approach procedure in which no
			electronic glide slope is provided.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Nonstatistical_Fire">
		<glossterm>Nonstatistical Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any fire not posing a threat to resources or property of the
			jurisdictional agency, regardless of whether action was taken by the
			agency.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Normal_Fire_Season">
		<glossterm>Normal Fire Season</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A season when weather, fire danger, and number and
			distribution of fires are about average.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Normal_Fire_Season1">
		<glossterm>Normal Fire Season</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Period of the year that normally comprises the fire season
			based on historical fire occurrence.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Normalized_Difference_Vegetation_Index">
		<glossterm>Normalized Difference Vegetation Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A satellite observation-derived value that is sensitive to
			vegetative growth, measured at 1.1 km (0.6 mile) spatial and 1 week
			temporal scales.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NDVI</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Notice_to_Airmen">
		<glossterm>Notice to Airmen</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Notice identified as either a NOTAM or Airmen Advisory
			containing information concerning the establishment, condition, or
			change in any component of, or hazard in, the National Airspace
			System, the timely knowledge of which is essential to personnel
			concerned with flight operations.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>NOTAM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Nozzle_Aspirated_Foam_System">
		<glossterm>Nozzle Aspirated Foam System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A foam generating device that mixes air at atmospheric
			pressure with foam solution in a nozzle chamber.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Nozzle_Operator">
		<glossterm>Nozzle Operator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A person assigned to operate a fire hose nozzle, usually on a
			hand line.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Nutrient">
		<glossterm>Nutrient</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Objective">
		<glossterm>Objective</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A description of a desired condition; quantified and measured,
			and where possible, with established time frames for
			achievement.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Objective1">
		<glossterm>Objective</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Specific, achievable, measurable, time-limited results to be
			achieved through land management practices, either through a
			description of a desired condition or the degree of desired change
			in an attribute.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Observation_Time">
		<glossterm>Observation Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Time of day required to record meteorological data at a fire
			danger station.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Obstruction_to_Vision">
		<glossterm>Obstruction to Vision</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Condition in which obscuring phenomenon restricts horizontal
			visibility to six statute miles (10 km.) or less.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Occluded_Front_or_Occlusion">
		<glossterm>Occluded Front or Occlusion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The front that is formed when and where a cold front overtakes
			a warm front or a stationary front.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Occurrence_Index">
		<glossterm>Occurrence Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A number in the National Fire Danger Rating System related to
			potential fire incidence within a protection unit.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>OI</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Off-road_Vehicle">
		<glossterm>Off-road Vehicle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any motorized vehicle designed for, or capable of,
			cross-country travel on or immediately over land, water, sand, snow,
			ice, marsh, swampland, or other terrain.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ORV</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#All_Terrain_Vehicle" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>All Terrain Vehicle</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Off-site_Colonizers">
		<glossterm>Off-site Colonizers</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Officer">
		<glossterm>Officer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS title for personnel responsible for the Command Staff
			positions of Safety, Liaison, and Information.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Offshore_Flow">
		<glossterm>Offshore Flow</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Wind blowing from land to water.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="On-Call">
		<glossterm>On-Call</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Status of a federal casual or federal regular government
			employee used for timekeeping purposes. An employee is considered to
			be in on-call status (off shift-federal casuals and federal regular
			government employees) when he or she is allowed to leave a telephone
			number or to carry an electronic device for the purpose of being
			contacted, even though the employee is required to remain within a
			reasonable call-back radius and may include restrictions on alcohol
			consumption or use of certain medications. 5 CFR
			551.431(b)(1)</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="On-Site_Colonizers">
		<glossterm>On-Site Colonizers</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="One-hour_Timelag_Fuel_Moisture">
		<glossterm>One-hour Timelag Fuel Moisture</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Moisture content of one-hour timelag fuels.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>1-h TL FM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="One-hour_Timelag_Fuels">
		<glossterm>One-hour Timelag Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fuels consisting of dead herbaceous plants and roundwood less
			than about one-fourth inch (6.4 mm) in diameter. Also included is
			the uppermost layer of needles or leaves on the forest
			floor.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#One-hour_Timelag_Fuel_Moisture">
				<linktext>One-hour Timelag Fuel Moisture</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="One-hundred_Hour_Timelag_Fuel_Moisture">
		<glossterm>One-hundred Hour Timelag Fuel Moisture</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The moisture content of the 100-hour timelag fuels.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>100-h TL FM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="One-hundred_Hour_Timelag_Fuels">
		<glossterm>One-hundred Hour Timelag Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Dead fuels consisting of roundwood in the size range of 1 to 3
			inches (2.5 to 7.6 cm) in diameter and very roughly the layer of
			litter extending from approximately three-fourths of an inch (1.9
			cm) to 4 inches (10 cm) below the surface.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#One-hour_Timelag_Fuel_Moisture">
				<linktext>One-hour Timelag Fuel Moisture</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="One-thousand_Hour_Timelag_Fuel_Moisture">
		<glossterm>One-thousand Hour Timelag Fuel Moisture</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The moisture content of the 1,000-hour timelag
			fuels.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>1,000-h TL FM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="One-thousand_Hour_Timelag_Fuels">
		<glossterm>One-thousand Hour Timelag Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Dead fuels consisting of roundwood 3-8 inches in diameter and
			the layer of the forest floor more than about 4 inches below the
			surface.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#One-hour_Timelag_Fuel_Moisture">
				<linktext>One-hour Timelag Fuel Moisture</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="One_Lick_Method">
		<glossterm>One Lick Method</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A progressive system of building a fireline on a wildfire
			without changing relative positions in the line. Each worker does
			one to several "licks", or strokes, with a given tool and then moves
			forward a specified distance to make room for the worker
			behind.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Onshore_Flow">
		<glossterm>Onshore Flow</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Wind blowing from water to land.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Open_Burning">
		<glossterm>Open Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Burning of any fuel outdoors without the use of mechanical
			combustion enhancements.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Open_Line">
		<glossterm>Open Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Refers to open fire front where no line has been
			constructed.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Operating_Weight">
		<glossterm>Operating Weight</glossterm>
		<glossdef>For helicopters, the equipped weight plus weight of the crew
			and fuel.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Allowable_Payload">
				<linktext>Allowable Payload</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Operational_Control">
		<glossterm>Operational Control</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The exercise of authority over initiating, conducting, or
			terminating any operation. Often associated with aviation
			operations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Operational_Period">
		<glossterm>Operational Period</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The period of time scheduled for execution of a given set of
			tactical actions as specified in the Incident Action Plan.
			Operational Periods can be of various lengths, although usually not
			over 24 hours.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Operational_Tempo">
		<glossterm>Operational Tempo</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The speed and intensity of actions relative to the speed and
			intensity of the unfolding events in the operational
			environment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Operations_Branch_Director">
		<glossterm>Operations Branch Director</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for implementing that portion
			of an incident action plan (IAP) appropriate to a designated
			operational branch and reports to the Operations Section
			Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>OPBD</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Operations_Section">
				<linktext>Operations Section</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Operations_Coordination_Center">
		<glossterm>Operations Coordination Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Primary facility of the Multi-agency Coordination System
			(MACS); houses staff and equipment necessary to perform the MACS
			function.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>OCC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Operations_Section">
		<glossterm>Operations Section</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The section responsible for all tactical operations at the
			incident. Includes branches, divisions and/or groups, task forces,
			strike teams, single resources and staging areas.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Operations_Section_Chief">
		<glossterm>Operations Section Chief</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for supervising the
			Operations Section. Reports to the Incident Commander and is a
			member of the General Staff. This position may have one or more
			deputies assigned.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>OSC1</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>OCS2</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Operations_Section">
				<linktext>Operations Section</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Orbit">
		<glossterm>Orbit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A circular holding pattern of an aircraft around a fixed
			location often related to a wildland fire. For example, the circular
			pattern of an air tanker in the vicinity of a wildland fire, waiting
			to make a retardant drop.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ordering_Manager">
		<glossterm>Ordering Manager</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for ordering personnel,
			equipment, and supplies for the incident and reports to the Supply
			Unit Leader.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ORDM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Supply_Unit">
				<linktext>Supply Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Organic_Matter">
		<glossterm>Organic Matter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That fraction of the soil that includes plant and animal
			residues at various stages of decomposition, cells and tissues of
			soil organisms, and substances synthesized by the soil
			population.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Organic_Soil">
		<glossterm>Organic Soil</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any soil or soil horizon containing at least 30% organic
			matter (e.g., muck, peat).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Orographic">
		<glossterm>Orographic</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Pertaining to, or caused by mountains.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Orthophoto">
		<glossterm>Orthophoto</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Photograph obtained from the orthogonal (i.e., horizontal)
			projection of a correctly oriented stereoscopic model formed by two
			overlapping aerial photographs; an orthophoto is free of tilt and
			relief displacements.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Orthophoto_Maps">
		<glossterm>Orthophoto Maps</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Aerial photographs corrected to scale such that geographic
			measurements may be taken directly from prints. They may contain
			graphically emphasized geographic features and may be provided with
			overlays of such features as: water systems, facility location,
			etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Out-of-Service_Resources">
		<glossterm>Out-of-Service Resources</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Resources assigned to an incident but unable to respond for
			mechanical, rest, or personal reasons.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Outside_Aid">
		<glossterm>Outside Aid</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Firefighting assistance given to adjacent areas and nearby
			communities by contract or other agreement that covers conditions
			and payment for assistance rendered and services performed.
			Contrasted to mutual aid, in which neighboring firefighting
			organizations assist each other without charge.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Outside_Diameter">
		<glossterm>Outside Diameter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>External diameter of a cylinder or tube, conductor, or
			coupling as distinguished from the internal diameter.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>OD</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Overhaul">
		<glossterm>Overhaul</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire department procedure of inspecting premises after
			extinguishment of fire, to insure that fire is completely out and
			unable to rekindle before returning control to owner or
			occupants.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Overhead">
		<glossterm>Overhead</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Personnel assigned to supervisory positions, including
			incident commander, command staff, general staff, branch directors,
			supervisors, unit leaders, managers and staff.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Overload">
		<glossterm>Overload</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Gross vehicle weight (GVW) in excess of the gross vehicle
			weight rating (GVWR) specified by the chassis manufacturer. Also an
			excess of weight over the gross vehicle axle weight rating (GAWR)
			specified by the chassis manufacture.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Overload1">
		<glossterm>Overload</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A situation that taxes an operational system to the limit of
			its functional capabilities. Such as too many fires for an
			individual unit to handle (fire overload), or too many orders for an
			individual dispatch center to process (dispatch
			overload).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Overwintering_Fire">
		<glossterm>Overwintering Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire that persists through the winter months until the
			beginning of fire season.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Oxidation">
		<glossterm>Oxidation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Process during which oxygen combines with another
			substance.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Oxidizer">
		<glossterm>Oxidizer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The portion of a chemical mixture or compound which furnishes
			oxygen for burning a fuel or propellant, creating an
			oxide.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="PM10">
		<glossterm>PM10</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Particulate matter of mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD)
			less than or equal to 10 micrometers.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>PM10</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="PM2.5">
		<glossterm>PM2.5</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Particulate matter of mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD)
			less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>PM2.5</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pack_Test">
		<glossterm>Pack Test</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Used to determine the aerobic capacity of fire suppression
			support personnel and assign physical fitness scores. The test
			consists of walking a specified distance, with or without a weighted
			pack, in a predetermined period of time, with altitude
			corrections.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Packing_Ratio">
		<glossterm>Packing Ratio</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The fraction of a fuel bed occupied by fuels, or the fuel
			volume divided by bed volume.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Panoramic_Photograph">
		<glossterm>Panoramic Photograph</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Photographs from a lookout point, bearing azimuth and vertical
			angle scales, to assist in locating fires with a
			firefinder.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Panoramic_Profile_Map">
		<glossterm>Panoramic Profile Map</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A panoramic sketch drawn around the circumference of a
			firefinder map to show the profiles of the topography as it appears
			from the lookout.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Paracargo">
		<glossterm>Paracargo</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Anything intentionally dropped, or intended for dropping, from
			any aircraft by parachute, by other retarding devices, or by free
			fall.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Parallel_Attack">
		<glossterm>Parallel Attack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Method of fire suppression in which fireline is constructed
			approximately parallel to, and just far enough from the fire edge to
			enable workers and equipment to work effectively, though the
			fireline may be shortened by cutting across unburned fingers. The
			intervening strip of unburned fuel is normally burned out as the
			control line proceeds but may be allowed to burn out unassisted
			where this occurs without undue delay or threat to the
			fireline.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Parallel_Burning">
		<glossterm>Parallel Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Parallel_Pumping">
		<glossterm>Parallel Pumping</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Procedure by which the flow from two fire pumps is combined
			into one hose line.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Parallel_Tandem_Pumping">
		<glossterm>Parallel Tandem Pumping</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Procedure by which the flow from two fire pumps is combined
			into a third pump.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Parameter">
		<glossterm>Parameter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A variable which can be measured quantitatively; sometimes, an
			arbitrary constant; associated with populations. One of the unknown
			values that determine a model.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Statistic">
				<linktext>Statistic</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Parking_Tender">
		<glossterm>Parking Tender</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible to the deck coordinator for take-offs and
			landings of helicopters at an assigned touchdown pad. There is one
			parking tender for each touchdown pad.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Partial-thickness_Burn">
		<glossterm>Partial-thickness Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A burn where the outer layer of skin is burned through and the
			second layer of skin (dermis) is damaged and is typically, a painful
			injury. Burns of this type cause reddening, blistering, and a
			mottled appearance. (also called Second Degree Burn)</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Full-thickness_Burn">
				<linktext>Full-thickness Burn</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Superficial_Burn">
				<linktext>Superficial Burn</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Partial_Risk">
		<glossterm>Partial Risk</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS).
			Contribution of a specific source to human-caused risk, derived from
			the daily activity level assigned a risk source and its risk source
			ratio.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Partial_Risk_Factor">
		<glossterm>Partial Risk Factor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS).
			Contribution to human-caused risk made by a specific risk source; a
			function of the daily activity level assigned that risk source and
			the appropriate risk source ratio.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Partial_Slash_Disposal">
		<glossterm>Partial Slash Disposal</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Particle_Size">
		<glossterm>Particle Size</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The size of a piece of fuel, often expressed in terms of size
			classes.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Particulate_Matter">
		<glossterm>Particulate Matter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any liquid or solid particles. "Total suspended particulates",
			as used in air quality, are those particles suspended in or falling
			through the atmosphere. They generally range in size (diameter) from
			0.1 to 100 micrometers.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Particulates</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Partners">
		<glossterm>Partners</glossterm>
		<glossdef>All agencies and organizations that engage in joint decision
			making with federal agencies in planning and conducting fire
			management projects and activities.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Parts_of_a_Fire">
		<glossterm>Parts of a Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Different areas of the fire usually determined by the
			predominant direction of fire spread and delineated from the fastest
			moving area (head) to the slowest moving area (base or tail). The
			most rapidly moving portion is designated the head of the fire, the
			adjoining portions of the perimeter at right angles to the head are
			known as the flanks, and the slowest moving portion is known as the
			rear or the base of the fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Passive_Crown_Fire">
		<glossterm>Passive Crown Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire in the crowns of trees in which trees or groups of
			trees torch, ignited by the passing front of the fire. The torching
			trees reinforce the spread rate, but these fires are not basically
			different from surface fires.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Patch_Burning">
		<glossterm>Patch Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Burning in patches to prepare sites for group planting or
			sowing or to form a barrier to subsequent fires.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Patrol">
		<glossterm>Patrol</glossterm>
		<glossdef>To travel over a given route to prevent, detect, and suppress
			fires. Includes interaction with the public for wildland fire
			prevention and educational purposes.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Patrol1">
		<glossterm>Patrol</glossterm>
		<glossdef>To go back and forth vigilantly over a length of control line
			during and/or after construction to prevent breakovers, suppress
			spot fires, and extinguish overlooked hot spots.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Patrol2">
		<glossterm>Patrol</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A person or group of persons who carry out patrol
			actions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Patrol_Time">
		<glossterm>Patrol Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Elapsed time from completion of original mopping up until the
			fire is declared to be extinguished.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Patrol_Unit">
		<glossterm>Patrol Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any light, mobile unit with limited pumping and water
			capacity.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pattern">
		<glossterm>Pattern</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The distribution of an aerially delivered retardant drop on
			the target area in terms of its length, width, and momentum
			(velocity x mass) as it approaches the ground. The latter determines
			the relative coverage level of the fire retardant on fuel within the
			pattern.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Drop_Pattern" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Drop Pattern</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pattern_Clusters">
		<glossterm>Pattern Clusters</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A group of indicators in a close proximity, of the same or
			different categories, that exhibit consistent directional
			values.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Payload">
		<glossterm>Payload</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Weight of passengers and/or cargo being carried by an
			aircraft.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Peak_Fire_Season">
		<glossterm>Peak Fire Season</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That period of the fire season during which fires are expected
			to ignite most readily, to burn with greater than average intensity,
			and to create damages at an unacceptable level.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Peak_Monthly_Average">
		<glossterm>Peak Monthly Average</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Highest monthly average of human-caused fires calculated for a
			protection unit.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Peak_Wind">
		<glossterm>Peak Wind</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The greatest 5-second average wind speed during the previous
			hour that exceeded 25 knots.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Peak_Wind_Direction">
		<glossterm>Peak Wind Direction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Direction at Peak Wind Speed.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Peak_Wind_Speed">
		<glossterm>Peak Wind Speed</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Maximum wind speed during the previous 60 minutes.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Percolation">
		<glossterm>Percolation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Passage of liquid through a porous body, as movement of water
			through soil.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Perennial_Plant">
		<glossterm>Perennial Plant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A plant that lives for more than two growing seasons. For fire
			danger rating purposes, biennial plants are classed with perennial
			plants.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Annual_Plant">
				<linktext>Annual Plant</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Performance_Chart">
		<glossterm>Performance Chart</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A chart, table, or graph provided by the manufacturer for use
			in determining an aspect of helicopter and fixed-wing aircraft
			performance.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Performance_Oriented_Objectives">
		<glossterm>Performance Oriented Objectives</glossterm>
		<glossdef>On-the-job performance enhancement is a result of online
			training. Performance oriented objectives or learning objectives for
			this training is developed, agreed to, and tested to ensure skill
			transfer. The purpose of learning objectives is to define the type
			of learning or performance outcomes that will occur at the
			conclusion of instruction and how learning will be assessed. Both
			objectives and performance outcomes should be written as precisely
			as possible in order to best determine whether they have been
			achieved.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Perimeter_Access">
		<glossterm>Perimeter Access</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any road, trail, or route that will allow firefighting forces
			to reach the perimeter of a wildland fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Period_of_Alert">
		<glossterm>Period of Alert</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Period of time when suppression crews, equipment, and aircraft
			are kept ready for deployment on short notice; usually employed when
			fire danger reaches a predetermined severity index.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Permafrost">
		<glossterm>Permafrost</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A short term for "permanently frozen ground"; any part of the
			earth's crust, bedrock, or soil mantle that remains below 32° F (0°
			C) continuously for a number of years.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Personal_Protective_Equipment">
		<glossterm>Personal Protective Equipment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That equipment and clothing required to mitigate the risk of
			injury from or exposure to hazardous conditions encountered during
			the performance of duty. PPE includes but is not limited to: fire
			resistant clothing, hard hat, flight helmets, shroud, goggles,
			gloves, respirators, hearing protection, chainsaw chaps, and
			shelter.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>PPE</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Personnel_Accountability">
		<glossterm>Personnel Accountability</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ability to account for the location and welfare of
			personnel, accomplished when supervisors ensure that the ICS
			principles and processes are functional and personnel are working
			within these guidelines.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Personnel_Pool">
		<glossterm>Personnel Pool</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Personnel who have reported to the incident without an
			assignment (i.e., they are not assigned to an increment, strike
			team, or organizational unit).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Personnel_Time_Recorder">
		<glossterm>Personnel Time Recorder</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible to the time unit leader for daily recording
			of the time of all personnel at the incident, posting commissary
			charges to the time reports, closing out all records prior to
			personnel leaving the incident, and distributing completed time
			documents according to each agency's policy.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Piling_and_Burning">
		<glossterm>Piling and Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Piling slash resulting from logging or fuel management
			activities and subsequently burning the individual piles.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pilot-in-Command">
		<glossterm>Pilot-in-Command</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Pilot responsible for the operation and safety of an aircraft
			during flight time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pilot_Balloon_Operation">
		<glossterm>Pilot Balloon Operation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A method of determining winds aloft by periodically reading
			the elevation and azimuth angles of a theodolite, usually at
			one-minute intervals, while tracking the ascent of a small free-lift
			balloon. A PIBAL is commonly used for constructing a wind
			profile.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>PIBAL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pilotage">
		<glossterm>Pilotage</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Navigation of aircraft by visual reference to
			landmarks.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pin_Lug_Coupling">
		<glossterm>Pin Lug Coupling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A hose coupling with one or more cylindrical studs on its
			outside rim. The studs allow the use of a spanner wrench to tighten
			the coupling.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pincer_Action">
		<glossterm>Pincer Action</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Direct attack around a fire in opposite directions by two or
			more attack units. Usually conducted from the fire's tail to
			head.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ping-Pong_Ball_System">
		<glossterm>Ping-Pong Ball System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Mechanized method of dispensing DAIDs (Delayed Aerial Ignition
			Devices) at a selected rate. The DAIDs are polystyrene balls, 1.25
			inches in diameter, containing potassium permanganate. The balls are
			fed into a dispenser, generally mounted in a helicopter, where they
			are injected with a water-glycol solution and then drop through a
			chute leading out of the helicopter. The chemicals react thermally
			and ignite in 25-30 seconds. The space between ignition points on
			the ground is primarily a function of helicopter speed, gear ratio
			of the dispenser, and the number of chutes used (up to
			four).</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Aerial_Ignition_Device">
				<linktext>Aerial Ignition Device</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Delayed_Aerial_Ignition_Devices">
				<linktext>Delayed Aerial Ignition Devices</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Helitorch">
				<linktext>Helitorch</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Plastic_Sphere_Dispenser">
				<linktext>Plastic Sphere Dispenser</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Plan_of_Attack">
		<glossterm>Plan of Attack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The selected course of action and organization of personnel
			and equipment in fire suppression, as applied to a particular fire
			or to all fires of a specific type.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Planetary_Boundary_Layer">
		<glossterm>Planetary Boundary Layer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That part of the earth's lower atmosphere that is directly
			influenced by the presence of the earth's surface and responds to
			surface forcings such as fronts, friction, evapotranspiration and
			convective mixing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Planning_Interval">
		<glossterm>Planning Interval</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Period of time between scheduled planning meetings.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Planning_Meeting">
		<glossterm>Planning Meeting</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A meeting held regularly throughout the duration of an
			incident, to select specific strategies and tactics for incident
			control operations and to plan for needed service and support. On
			larger incidents, the planning meeting is a major element in the
			development of the Incident Action Plan.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Planning_Section">
		<glossterm>Planning Section</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Responsible for the collection, evaluation, and dissemination
			of tactical information related to the incident, and for the
			preparation and documentation of incident action plans. The section
			also maintains information on the current and forecasted situation,
			and on the status of resources assigned to the incident. Includes
			the situation, resource, documentation, and demobilization units, as
			well as technical specialists.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Planning_Section_Chief">
		<glossterm>Planning Section Chief</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for supervising the Planning
			Section. Reports to the Incident Commander and is a member of the
			General Staff. This position may have one or more deputies
			assigned.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>PSC1 or PSC2</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Planning_Section">
				<linktext>Planning Section</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Plastic_Sphere_Dispenser">
		<glossterm>Plastic Sphere Dispenser</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Device installed, but jettisonable, in a helicopter, which
			injects glycol into a plastic sphere containing potassium
			permanganate, which is then expelled from the machine and aircraft.
			This produces an exothermic reaction resulting in ignition of fuels
			on the ground for prescribed or wildland fire
			applications.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>PSD</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Aerial_Ignition_Device">
				<linktext>Aerial Ignition Device</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Delayed_Aerial_Ignition_Devices">
				<linktext>Delayed Aerial Ignition Devices</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Helitorch">
				<linktext>Helitorch</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Ping-Pong_Ball_System">
				<linktext>Ping-Pong Ball System</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Plow_Line">
		<glossterm>Plow Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fireline constructed by a fire plow, usually drawn by a
			tractor or other motorized equipment.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Dozer">
				<linktext>Dozer</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Dozer_Line">
				<linktext>Dozer Line</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Tractor">
				<linktext>Tractor</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Tractor_Plow">
				<linktext>Tractor Plow</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Plume">
		<glossterm>Plume</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A convection column generated by combustion (of wildland
			fuel).</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Convection_Column">
				<linktext>Convection Column</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Plume-dominated_Wildland_Fire">
		<glossterm>Plume-dominated Wildland Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A wildland fire whose activity is determined by the convection
			column.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Plume_Rise">
		<glossterm>Plume Rise</glossterm>
		<glossdef>How high above the level of release an emission plume
			rises.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pockets_of_a_Fire">
		<glossterm>Pockets of a Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Unburned indentations in the fire edge formed by fingers or
			slow burning areas.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Point_Source">
		<glossterm>Point Source</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A permanent source of air pollution that can be distinctly
			identified such as a smokestack.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Point_Source_Fire_Predictions">
		<glossterm>Point Source Fire Predictions</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Predictions that apply to an initiating fire burning during a
			time when conditions have been relatively constant, or where it can
			be assumed that the fire will maintain a basically elliptical
			shape.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Point_of_Attack">
		<glossterm>Point of Attack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That part of the fire on which work is started when
			suppression crews arrive.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Point_of_Origin">
		<glossterm>Point of Origin</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The location where a competent ignition source came into
			contact with the material first ignited and sustained combustion
			occurred.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Poise">
		<glossterm>Poise</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Unit of fluid viscosity in fire retardant, defined as
			tangential force per unit area (dynes/square centimeter) required to
			maintain unit difference in velocity (1 centimeter/second) between
			two parallel planes separated by 1 cm of fluid (1 poise=1
			dyne-second/cubic centimeter).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Portable_Pump">
		<glossterm>Portable Pump</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Small gasoline-driven pump that can be carried to a water
			source by one or two firefighters or other conveyance over difficult
			terrain.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Portatank">
		<glossterm>Portatank</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Container, either with rigid frame or self supporting, which
			can be filled with water or fire chemical mixture from which fire
			suppression resources can be filled. It can also be a source for
			charging hose lays from portable pumps or stationary
			engines.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Position_Currency_Requirement">
		<glossterm>Position Currency Requirement</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The requirement to perform satisfactorily in a specified
			position within the last five years (three years for aviation and
			expanded dispatch positions) in order to maintain qualification for
			the position.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Position_Performance_Assignment">
		<glossterm>Position Performance Assignment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An assignment in which an individual is being evaluated for
			tasks found in the position task book.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Position_Task_Book">
				<linktext>Position Task Book</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Position_Task_Book">
		<glossterm>Position Task Book</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A document listing the performance requirements (competencies
			and behaviors) for a position in a format that allows for the
			evaluation of individual (trainee) performance to determine if an
			individual is qualified in the position. Successful performance of
			PTB tasks, as observed and recorded by a qualified evaluator, will
			result in a recommendation to the trainee's home unit that the
			individual be certified in the position.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>PTB</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Agency_Certification">
				<linktext>Agency Certification</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Behavior">
				<linktext>Behavior</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Competency">
				<linktext>Competency</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Evaluator">
				<linktext>Evaluator</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Home_Unit">
				<linktext>Home Unit</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Trainee">
				<linktext>Trainee</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Positive_Displacement_Pump">
		<glossterm>Positive Displacement Pump</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A pump which moves a specified quantity of water through the
			pump chamber with each stroke or cycle; it is capable of pumping
			air, and therefore is self-priming, but must have pressure relief
			provisions if plumbing or hoses have shut-off nozzles or valves .
			Gear pumps and piston pumps are common examples of this
			type.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Potato_Roll">
		<glossterm>Potato Roll</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Quick method of rolling hose for pick up; hose is rolled as a
			ball of string.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pounds_per_Square_Inch">
		<glossterm>Pounds per Square Inch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Measurement of pressure (e.g., pump pressure, nozzle pressure,
			friction loss in hose, pressure loss or gain due to
			elevation).</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>PSI</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pre-Green">
		<glossterm>Pre-Green</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In the 1978 version of NFDRS, the herbaceous stage
			approximately 30 days prior to green-up.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Preattack">
		<glossterm>Preattack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A planned, systematic procedure for collecting, recording, and
			evaluating prefire and fire management intelligence data for a given
			planning unit or preattack block. The planning phase is usually
			followed by a construction and development program integrated with
			other resources and activities.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Preattack_Block">
		<glossterm>Preattack Block</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Unit of wildland delineated by logical and strategic
			topographic features for preattack planning.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Preattack_Planning">
		<glossterm>Preattack Planning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Within designated blocks of land, planning the locations of
			firelines, fire camps, water sources, and helispots; planning
			transportation systems, probable rates of travel, and constraints of
			travel on various types of attack units; and determining what types
			of attack units likely would be needed to construct particular
			firelines, their probable rate of fireline construction, and
			topographic constraints on fireline construction.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Precautionary_Landing">
		<glossterm>Precautionary Landing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A landing necessitated by apparent impending failure of
			engines, systems, or components which makes continued flight
			unadvisable.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Precipitation">
		<glossterm>Precipitation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any or all forms of water particles, liquid or solid, that
			fall from the atmosphere and reach the ground.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Precipitation_Amount">
		<glossterm>Precipitation Amount</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The total amount of precipitation that occurred within the
			preceding 24-hour period.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Precipitation_Duration">
		<glossterm>Precipitation Duration</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Time, in hours and fraction of hours, that a precipitation
			event lasts. More precisely, for fire danger rating purposes, the
			length of time that fuels are subjected to liquid water.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Precipitation_Gauge">
		<glossterm>Precipitation Gauge</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Device commonly used to collect and permit measurement of any
			form of rain and snow sufficiently heavy to have fallen to the
			earth's surface. Also called rain gauge.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Precision_Approach_Procedure">
		<glossterm>Precision Approach Procedure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A standard instrument approach procedure for fixed-wing
			aircraft in which an electronic glide slope is provided, such as ILS
			and PAR.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Precision_Approach_Radar">
		<glossterm>Precision Approach Radar</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Blind landing in which the aircraft is observed from the
			ground by means of radar and directed along a suitable glide path by
			instructions radioed to the pilot.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>PAR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Preconnected">
		<glossterm>Preconnected</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Hard suction hose or discharge hose carried connected to pump,
			eliminating delay occasioned when hose and nozzles must be connected
			and attached at fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Predictive_Services">
		<glossterm>Predictive Services</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Those Geographic Area and National-level fire weather or fire
			danger services and products produced by wildland fire agency
			meteorologists and intelligence staffs in support of resource
			allocation and prioritization.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Preignition_Combustion_Phase">
		<glossterm>Preignition Combustion Phase</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Thermal or chemical decomposition of fuel at an elevated
			temperature. This is the pre-combustion stage of burning during
			which distillation and pyrolysis predominate. Heat energy is
			absorbed by the fuel which, in turn, gives off water vapor and
			flammable tars, pitches, and gases. These ignite when mixed with
			oxygen to initiate the flaming combustion phase.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Preignition_Phase">
		<glossterm>Preignition Phase</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Preliminary phase of combustion in which fuel elements ahead
			of the fire are heated, causing fuels to dry. Heat induces
			decomposition of some components of the wood, causing release of
			combustible organic gases and vapors.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Preparedness">
		<glossterm>Preparedness</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Activities that lead to a safe, efficient, and cost-effective
			fire management program in support of land and resource management
			objectives through appropriate planning and coordination.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Readiness">
				<linktext>Readiness</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Readiness1">
				<linktext>Readiness</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Preparedness1">
		<glossterm>Preparedness</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Mental readiness to recognize changes in fire danger and act
			promptly when action is appropriate.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Readiness">
				<linktext>Readiness</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Readiness1">
				<linktext>Readiness</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Preparedness2">
		<glossterm>Preparedness</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The range of deliberate, critical tasks, and activities
			necessary to build, sustain, and improve the capability to protect
			against, respond to, and recover from domestic incidents.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Readiness">
				<linktext>Readiness</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Readiness1">
				<linktext>Readiness</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Preparedness_Level">
		<glossterm>Preparedness Level</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Increments of planning and organization readiness commensurate
			with increasing fire danger.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Preparedness_Plan">
		<glossterm>Preparedness Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A written plan providing for timely recognition of approaching
			critical fire situations, priority setting, the deployment of
			forces, and other actions to respond to those situations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Prescribed_Burning">
		<glossterm>Prescribed Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Application of prescribed fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Prescribed_Fire">
		<glossterm>Prescribed Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any fire ignited by management actions to meet specific
			objectives. A written, approved prescribed fire plan must exist, and
			NEPA requirements (where applicable) must be met, prior to
			ignition.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Wildland_Fire">
				<linktext>Wildland Fire</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Prescribed_Fire_Burn_Plan">
		<glossterm>Prescribed Fire Burn Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A plan required for each fire application ignited by
			management. Plans are documents prepared by qualified personnel,
			approved by the agency administrator, and include criteria for the
			conditions under which the fire will be conducted (a prescription).
			Plan content varies among the agencies.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Implementation_Plan">
				<linktext>Implementation Plan</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Prescription">
		<glossterm>Prescription</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Measurable criteria that define conditions under which a
			prescribed fire may be ignited, guide selection of appropriate
			management responses, and indicate other required
			actions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pressure_Gradient">
		<glossterm>Pressure Gradient</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The difference in atmospheric pressure between two points on a
			weather map. That is, the magnitude of pressure difference between
			two points at sea level, or at constant elevation above sea level.
			Wind speed is directly related to pressure gradient. If distance
			between constant pressure lines is reduced by one-half, wind speed
			will be doubled. Conversely, if distance between lines is doubled,
			wind speed will be reduced by one-half.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pressure_Loss">
		<glossterm>Pressure Loss</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Reduction in water pressure between a pump or hydrant and a
			nozzle due to expenditure of pressure energy required to move water
			through a hose; includes losses due to back pressure, friction loss,
			elevation loss, and/or losses in fittings.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pressure_Pattern">
		<glossterm>Pressure Pattern</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The distribution of surface atmospheric pressure features over
			an area of the earth as shown on a weather map. Surface pressure
			features include lines of constant pressure (isobars), highs, lows,
			and pressure gradient. The pressure pattern is directly related to
			wind speeds and directions at specific locations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Presuppression">
		<glossterm>Presuppression</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Activities in advance of fire occurrence to ensure effective
			suppression action. Includes planning the organization, recruiting
			and training, procuring equipment and supplies, maintaining fire
			equipment and fire control improvements, and negotiating cooperative
			and/or mutual aid agreements.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pretreat">
		<glossterm>Pretreat</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The use of water, foam or retardant along a control line in
			advance of the fire. Often used where ground cover or terrain is
			considered best for control action.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Prevention">
		<glossterm>Prevention</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Activities directed at reducing the incidence of fires,
			including public education, law enforcement, personal contact, and
			reduction of fuel hazards (fuels management).</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire_Education">
				<linktext>Fire Education</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Prevention1">
		<glossterm>Prevention</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Actions to avoid an incident, to intervene for the purpose of
			stopping an incident from occurring, or to mitigate an incident's
			effect to protect life and property. Includes measures designed to
			mitigate damage by reducing or eliminating risks to persons or
			property, lessening the potential effects or consequences of an
			incident.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire_Education">
				<linktext>Fire Education</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Prevention_of_Significant_Deterioration">
		<glossterm>Prevention of Significant Deterioration</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A program identified by the Clean Air Act to prevent air
			quality and visibility degradation and to remedy existing visibility
			problems. Areas of the country are grouped into 3 classes which are
			allowed certain degrees of pollution depending on their uses.
			National Parks and Wilderness Areas meeting certain criteria are
			"Class I" or "clean area" in that they have the smallest allowable
			increment of degradation.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>PSD</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Primary_Lookout">
		<glossterm>Primary Lookout</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A lookout point that must be staffed to meet planned minimum
			seen area coverage in a given locality. For that reason, continuous
			service is necessary during the normal fire season and the lookout
			(person) is not sent to fires.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Priming">
		<glossterm>Priming</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Filling pump with water when pump is taking water not under a
			pressure head. Necessary for centrifugal pumps.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Probability">
		<glossterm>Probability</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A number representing the chance that a given event will
			occur. The range is from 0% for an impossible event, to 100% for an
			inevitable event.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Probability_Forecast">
		<glossterm>Probability Forecast</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A forecast of the probability of occurrence of one or more of
			a mutually exclusive set of weather contingencies as distinguished
			from a series of categorical statements.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Probability_of_Ignition">
		<glossterm>Probability of Ignition</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The chance that a firebrand will cause an ignition when it
			lands on receptive fuels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Procurement_Unit">
		<glossterm>Procurement Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Functional unit within the Finance/Administration Section
			responsible for managing all financial matters pertaining to vendor
			contracts.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Procurement_Unit_Leader">
		<glossterm>Procurement Unit Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the Procurement
			Unit. Reports to the Finance/Administration Section
			Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>PROC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Procurement_Unit">
				<linktext>Procurement Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Progressive_Hose_Lay">
		<glossterm>Progressive Hose Lay</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A hose lay in which double shutoff wye (Y) valves are inserted
			in the main line at intervals and lateral lines are run from the
			wyes to the fire edge, thus permitting continuous application of
			water during extension of the lay.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Progressive_Method_of_Line_Construction">
		<glossterm>Progressive Method of Line Construction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A system of organizing workers to build fireline in which they
			advance without changing relative positions in line.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Project_Activity_Level">
		<glossterm>Project Activity Level</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An application of fire danger rating to support regulation of
			contractors involved in land management activities for fire
			prevention purposes in California.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>PAL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Project_Objectives">
		<glossterm>Project Objectives</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The specific results expected from completing a
			project.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Proportioner">
		<glossterm>Proportioner</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A device that adds a predetermined amount of foam concentrate
			to water to form foam solution.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Protecting_Agency">
		<glossterm>Protecting Agency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Agency responsible for providing direct incident management
			within a specific geographical area pursuant to its jurisdictional
			responsibility or as specified and provide by contract, cooperative
			agreement, etc.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire_Agency">
				<linktext>Fire Agency</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Responsible_Fire_Agency">
				<linktext>Responsible Fire Agency</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Protection">
		<glossterm>Protection</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The actions taken to limit the adverse environmental, social,
			political, and economical effects of fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Protection_Boundary">
		<glossterm>Protection Boundary</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The exterior perimeter of an area within which a specified
			fire agency has assumed a degree of responsibility for wildland fire
			control. It may include land in addition to that for which the
			agency has jurisdiction or contractual responsibility.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Protection_Indicators">
		<glossterm>Protection Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fuels that are unburned or exhibit a less damaged appearance
			on the non-origin side of the fuel itself or other
			objects.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Protection_Unit">
		<glossterm>Protection Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A geographical area which is administratively defined and
			which is the smallest area for which organized fire suppression
			activities are formally planned.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Psychrometer">
		<glossterm>Psychrometer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>General name for instruments designed to determine the
			moisture content of air. A psychrometer consists of dry- and
			wet-bulb thermometers that give the dry- and wet-bulb temperatures,
			which in turn are used to determine relative humidity and dew
			point.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Public_Aircraft">
		<glossterm>Public Aircraft</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Aircraft used only in the service of a government or a
			political subdivision. It does not include any government-owned
			aircraft engaged in carrying persons for commercial
			purposes.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Public_Information_Officer">
		<glossterm>Public Information Officer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for developing and releasing
			information about the incident to the news media, incident
			personnel, and to other appropriate agencies and organizations.
			Reports to the Incident Commander and is a member of the Command
			Staff. This position may have one or more assistants
			assigned.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>PIO1 </glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>PIO2</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>PIOF</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pulaski">
		<glossterm>Pulaski</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A combination chopping and trenching tool widely used in
			fireline construction, which combines a single-bitted axe blade with
			a narrow adze-like trenching blade fitted to a straight
			handle.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Punk">
		<glossterm>Punk</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Punky_Material">
		<glossterm>Punky Material</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Partly decayed material, such as old wood, in which fire can
			smolder unless it is carefully mopped up and extinguished. A good
			receptor for firebrands when dry.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pyrolysis">
		<glossterm>Pyrolysis</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The thermal or chemical decomposition of fuel at an elevated
			temperature. This is the preignition combustion phase of burning
			during which heat energy is absorbed by the fuel which, in turn,
			gives off flammable tars, pitches, and gases.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Pyrotechnic">
		<glossterm>Pyrotechnic</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A mixture of chemicals designed to produce heat, light, gas,
			smoke or noise.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Quadrangle">
		<glossterm>Quadrangle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Mapping unit which defines an area in terms of longitude and
			latitude distance. Two common scales are 1:24,000 quadrangles, which
			are 7.5' longitude x 7.5' latitude, and 1:62,500 quadrangles, which
			are 15' longitude x 15' latitude.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Qualification_Sheet">
		<glossterm>Qualification Sheet</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A written resume of an expert witness used to show that
			expert’s sufficient special expertise in the field.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Qualifications_and_Certification">
		<glossterm>Qualifications and Certification</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This subsystem of NIIMS provides recommended qualification and
			certification for those personnel responding to an incident
			regionally or nationally, allowing for the development of local
			minimum standards to meet local needs. Standards typically include
			training, experience, and physical fitness.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#National_Interagency_Incident_Management_System">
				<linktext>National Interagency Incident Management
					System</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Radial">
		<glossterm>Radial</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A magnetic bearing extending from a ground-based navigational
			system, providing airborne navigation information.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Radiant_Burn">
		<glossterm>Radiant Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A thermal trauma that maybe a superficial, partial thickness
			or full thickness burn.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Radiant_Heat_Flux">
		<glossterm>Radiant Heat Flux</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The amount of heat flowing through a given area in a given
			time, usually expressed as calories/square
			centimeter/second.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Radiation">
		<glossterm>Radiation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Propagation of energy in free space by virtue of joint,
			undulatory variations in the electric or magnetic fields in space,
			(i.e., by electromagnetic waves).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Radiation1">
		<glossterm>Radiation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Transfer of heat in straight lines through a gas or vacuum
			other than by heating of the intervening space.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Radio_Cache">
		<glossterm>Radio Cache</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A cache may consist of a number of portable radios, base
			station, and, in some caches, a radio repeater that is stored in a
			predetermined location for dispatch to incidents.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Radio_Fix">
		<glossterm>Radio Fix</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Determination of position by one or more radio navigational
			aids.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Radiosonde">
		<glossterm>Radiosonde</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A device carried aloft by a balloon equipped with measuring
			instruments that automatically convert temperature, pressure, and
			humidity data into electrical impulses and transmit this information
			to a ground recorder.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Sounding_Upper_Air_Sounding">
				<linktext>Sounding (Upper Air Sounding)</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Railroad_Fire">
		<glossterm>Railroad Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire resulting from any operation or activity of a railroad,
			except smoking.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Range_Fire">
		<glossterm>Range Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any wildfire on rangeland.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ranger_District">
		<glossterm>Ranger District</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An administrative subdivision of a national forest (under a
			district ranger) or other tract of public land.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rappelling">
		<glossterm>Rappelling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Technique of landing specifically trained and certified
			firefighters from hovering helicopters; involves sliding down ropes
			with the aid of friction-producing devices.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rate_of_Spread">
		<glossterm>Rate of Spread</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The relative activity of a fire in extending its horizontal
			dimensions. It is expressed as rate of increase of the total
			perimeter of the fire, as rate of forward spread of the fire front,
			or as rate of increase in area, depending on the intended use of the
			information. Usually it is expressed in chains or acres per hour for
			a specific period in the fire's history.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Forward_Rate_of_Spread">
				<linktext>Forward Rate of Spread</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rate_of_Spread_Factor">
		<glossterm>Rate of Spread Factor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A factor usually on a scale of 1 to 100 which represents a
			relative rate of forward spread for a specific fuel condition and
			fixed weather conditions (or fuel model). Factors can be used as
			multipliers, arguments for entering tables, or provide a ratio of
			values between two fuels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rate_of_Spread_Meter">
		<glossterm>Rate of Spread Meter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A device that computes the probable rate of spread of a fire
			for different combinations of fuel moisture, wind speed, and other
			selected factors.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rating_Period">
		<glossterm>Rating Period</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). The
			period of time during which a fire danger rating value is considered
			valid or representative for administrative or other purposes.
			Normally it is 24 hours extending from midnight to
			midnight.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rawinsonde">
		<glossterm>Rawinsonde</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Method of upper-air observation consisting of an evaluation of
			the wind speed and wind direction, temperature, pressure, and
			relative humidity aloft by means of a balloon-borne radiosonde
			tracked by a radar or radio direction-finder.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Re-Certification">
		<glossterm>Re-Certification</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Confirmation through the re-issuance of an incident
			qualification card that an individual has regained qualifications
			for a specified position that was lost through a lack of current
			experience. A key component in the certification or re-certification
			process is the subjective evaluation by the appropriate agency
			official of an individual's capability to perform in a
			position.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Reaction_Intensity">
		<glossterm>Reaction Intensity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The rate of heat release, per unit area of the flaming fire
			front, expressed as heat energy/area/time, such as Btu/square
			foot/minute, or Kcal/square meter/second.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Combustion_Rate">
				<linktext>Combustion Rate</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Readiness">
		<glossterm>Readiness</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Condition or degree of being completely ready to cope with a
			potential fire situation.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Preparedness">
				<linktext>Preparedness</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Preparedness1">
				<linktext>Preparedness</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Preparedness2">
				<linktext>Preparedness</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Readiness1">
		<glossterm>Readiness</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Mental readiness to recognize changes in fire danger and act
			promptly when action is appropriate.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Preparedness">
				<linktext>Preparedness</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Preparedness1">
				<linktext>Preparedness</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Preparedness2">
				<linktext>Preparedness</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rear_Of_a_Fire">
		<glossterm>Rear (Of a Fire)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That portion of a fire spreading directly into the wind or
			down slope.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rear_Of_a_Fire1">
		<glossterm>Rear (Of a Fire)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That portion of a fire edge opposite the head.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rear_Of_a_Fire2">
		<glossterm>Rear (Of a Fire)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Slowest spreading portion of a fire edge. Also called heel of
			a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Reasonably_Available_Control_Measures">
		<glossterm>Reasonably Available Control Measures</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Control measures developed by EPA which apply to residential
			wood combustion, fugitive dust, and prescribed and silvicultural
			burning in and around "moderate" PM-10 non-attainment areas. RACM is
			designed to bring an area back into attainment and uses a smoke
			management program which relies on weather forecasts for
			burn/no-burn days.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>RACM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Best_Available_Control_Measures">
				<linktext>Best Available Control Measures</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Reburn">
		<glossterm>Reburn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Repeat burning of an area over which a fire has previously
			passed, but left fuel that later ignites when burning conditions are
			more favorable.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Reburn1">
		<glossterm>Reburn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area that has reburned.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Receiving_and_Distribution_Manager">
		<glossterm>Receiving and Distribution Manager</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for receiving and
			distributing supplies and equipment ordered for the incident and
			reports to the Supply Unit Leader.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>RCDM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Supply_Unit">
				<linktext>Supply Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Reconnaissance">
		<glossterm>Reconnaissance</glossterm>
		<glossdef>To examine a fire area to obtain information about current and
			probable fire behavior and other related fire suppression
			information.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>RECON</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Recorders">
		<glossterm>Recorders</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Individuals within ICS organizational units who are
			responsible for recording information. Recorders may be found in
			planning, logistics and finance/administration units.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Recovery">
		<glossterm>Recovery</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The increase in fuel moisture as a result of increased
			relative humidity, usually occurring overnight.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Recovery1">
		<glossterm>Recovery</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The general term used to describe the maximum overnight value
			of atmospheric relative humidity.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Recreation_Fire">
		<glossterm>Recreation Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire resulting from recreational use, except
			smoking.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Recurrent_Training">
		<glossterm>Recurrent Training</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Training scheduled at established intervals that has been
			identified as required training in order to maintain position
			currency.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Red_Flag_Warning">
		<glossterm>Red Flag Warning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Term used by fire weather forecasters to alert forecast users
			to an ongoing or imminent critical fire weather pattern.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire_Weather_Watch">
				<linktext>Fire Weather Watch</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Reel">
		<glossterm>Reel</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A frame on which hose is wound, now chiefly used for "booster"
			or small hose (3/4- or l-inch hose) (19 or 25 mm) supplied by a
			water tank on the apparatus; also, a hand-drawn 2-wheel frame for
			2-1/2 inch (64 mm) hose used in industrial plants.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Regional_Haze">
		<glossterm>Regional Haze</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Visibility impairment caused by the cumulative air pollutant
			emissions from numerous sources over a wide geographic
			area.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Haze">
				<linktext>Haze</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rehabilitation">
		<glossterm>Rehabilitation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Efforts undertaken within three years of a wildland fire to
			repair or improve fire damaged lands unlikely to recover to a
			management approved conditions or to repair or replace minor
			facilities damaged by fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rekindle">
		<glossterm>Rekindle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Reignition due to latent heat, sparks, or embers or due to
			presence of smoke or steam.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Relative_Greenness">
		<glossterm>Relative Greenness</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An NDVI-derived image of vegetation greenness compared to how
			green it has been historically.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>RG</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Greenness_Factor">
				<linktext>Greenness Factor</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Relative_Humidity">
		<glossterm>Relative Humidity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ratio of the amount of moisture in the air, to the maximum
			amount of moisture that air would contain if it were saturated. The
			ratio of the actual vapor pressure to the saturated vapor
			pressure.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>RH</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Relay">
		<glossterm>Relay</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Use of two or more fire pumps to move water a distance which
			would require excessive pressures in order to overcome friction loss
			if only one pump were employed at the source.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Relay_Tank">
		<glossterm>Relay Tank</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A tank, usually collapsible, used as a reservoir in the relay
			of water from one fire pump to another.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Release_Order">
		<glossterm>Release Order</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The order that defines when personnel and/or equipment will be
			ready for release from an incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Relief_Valve">
		<glossterm>Relief Valve</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A pressure-controlled device which bypasses water at a fire
			pump to prevent excessive pressures when a nozzle is shut
			down.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Reload_Base">
		<glossterm>Reload Base</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An airfield where air tankers are reloaded but not permanently
			stationed.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Air_Attack_Base">
				<linktext>Air Attack Base</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Remote_Automatic_Weather_Station">
		<glossterm>Remote Automatic Weather Station</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A weather station that transmits weather observations via GOES
			satellite to the Wildland Fire Management Information
			system.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>RAWS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Repeater">
		<glossterm>Repeater</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A radio signal station that automatically relays a radio
			transmission, sometimes over a different frequency, thereby
			increasing the range of transmission. Repeaters are often named for
			the mountaintops or peaks where they are installed.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Report_Time">
		<glossterm>Report Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Elapsed time from fire discovery until the first personnel
			charged with initiating action for fire suppression are notified of
			its existence and location.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Reportable_Fire">
		<glossterm>Reportable Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any wildfire that requires fire suppression to protect natural
			resources or values associated with natural resources, or is
			destructive to natural resources.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Reporting_Locations">
		<glossterm>Reporting Locations</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Location or facilities where incoming resources can check-in
			at the incident. Check-in locations include: incident command post
			(resources unit), incident base, camps, staging areas, helibases,
			helispots, and direct to the line. Check-in at one location
			only.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Check-in">
				<linktext>Check-in</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Required_Experience">
		<glossterm>Required Experience</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Documented, satisfactory performance in a specified position
			needed to qualify for another (usually higher level) position.
			Required experience cannot be challenged.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Required_Training">
		<glossterm>Required Training</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A course or courses that must be completed prior to initiating
			a position task book. Training which has been identified as required
			cannot be challenged; an agency equivalent course may be used as a
			substitute when the course meets or exceeds a required course's
			learning and performance objectives.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rescue">
		<glossterm>Rescue</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Saving a life from fire or accident; removing a victim from an
			untenable or unhealthy atmosphere.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rescue_Medical">
		<glossterm>Rescue Medical</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any staffed ground vehicle capable of providing medical
			services.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rescue_Medical_Vehicle">
		<glossterm>Rescue Medical Vehicle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any staffed ground vehicle capable of providing emergency
			medical care and staffed with appropriate number of trained
			personnel and equipment for that incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Reserve">
		<glossterm>Reserve</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In wildland fire suppression terminology resources not
			assigned to a specific task, but available for
			assignment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Residence_Time">
		<glossterm>Residence Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The time, in seconds, required for the flaming front of a fire
			to pass a stationary point at the surface of the fuel. The total
			length of time that the flaming front of the fire occupies one
			point.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Residual_Combustion_Stage">
		<glossterm>Residual Combustion Stage</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The smoldering zone behind the zone of an advancing fire
			front.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Residual_Smoke">
		<glossterm>Residual Smoke</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Smoke produced by smoldering material. The flux of smoke
			originating well after the active flaming combustion period with
			little or no vertical buoyancy and, therefore, most susceptible to
			subsidence inversions and down-valley flows.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Resistance_to_Control">
		<glossterm>Resistance to Control</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The relative difficulty of constructing and holding a control
			line as affected by resistance to line construction and by fire
			behavior. Also called difficulty of control.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Resistance_to_Line_Construction">
		<glossterm>Resistance to Line Construction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The relative difficulty of constructing control line as
			determined by the fuel, topography, and soil.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Resource_Capability">
		<glossterm>Resource Capability</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ability of the wildland fire program to respond to current
			and anticipated workload needs for the area of concern.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Resource_Order">
		<glossterm>Resource Order</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The form used by dispatchers, service personnel, and logistics
			coordinators to document the request, ordering or release of
			resources, and the tracking of those resources on an
			incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Resource_Ordering_and_Status_System">
		<glossterm>Resource Ordering and Status System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A national system that provides automated support to
			interagency and agency dispatch and coordination offices. The system
			will provide current status of resources available to support
			all-risk activities; enable dispatch offices to exchange and track
			resource ordering information electronically; enable dispatch
			offices to rapidly and reliably exchange mission-critical emergency
			electronic messages.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>ROSS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Resource_Status_Board">
		<glossterm>Resource Status Board</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Visual aid containing pertinent information regarding fire
			organization, current operational period resources, previous
			operational period resources, and next operational period resources
			being prepared; placed at a convenient location in fire camp for
			review by fireline overhead personnel on large fires.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Resource_Use_Specialist">
		<glossterm>Resource Use Specialist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible to the planning section chief for
			determining capabilities and limitations of resources at an
			incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Resource_Value-at-risk">
		<glossterm>Resource Value-at-risk</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire suppression planning tool providing a relative expression
			(in five classes) of fire effects on all resources (not the value of
			the resources themselves).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Resources">
		<glossterm>Resources</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Personnel, equipment, services and supplies available, or
			potentially available, for assignment to incidents. Personnel and
			equipment are described by kind and type, e.g., ground, water, air,
			etc., and may be used in tactical, support or overhead capacities at
			an incident.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Active_Resources">
				<linktext>Active Resources</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Allocated_Resources">
				<linktext>Allocated Resources</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Available_Resources">
				<linktext>Available Resources</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Values_To_Be_Protected">
				<linktext>Values To Be Protected</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Resources1">
		<glossterm>Resources</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The natural resources of an area, such as timber, grass,
			watershed values, recreation values, and wildlife
			habitat.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Active_Resources">
				<linktext>Active Resources</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Allocated_Resources">
				<linktext>Allocated Resources</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Available_Resources">
				<linktext>Available Resources</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Values_To_Be_Protected">
				<linktext>Values To Be Protected</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Resources_Unit">
		<glossterm>Resources Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Functional unit within the planning section responsible for
			recording the status of resources committed to the incident. The
			unit also evaluates resources currently committed to the incident,
			the impact that additional responding resources will have on the
			incident, and anticipated resource needs.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Resources_Unit_Leader">
		<glossterm>Resources Unit Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS responsible for supervising the Resources Unit.
			Reports to the Planning Section Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>RESL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Resources_Unit">
				<linktext>Resources Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Respirator">
		<glossterm>Respirator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A simple filter mask for individual protection against smoke
			and fumes, recommended for use in fire suppression on wildfires
			only; not recommended for use on structure fires or fires involving
			most hazardous materials.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Self-Contained_Breathing_Apparatus">
				<linktext>Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Response">
		<glossterm>Response</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Movement of an individual firefighting resource from its
			assigned standby location to another location or to an incident in
			reaction to dispatch orders or to a reported alarm.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Response1">
		<glossterm>Response</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Activities that address the short-term, direct effect of an
			incident, including immediate actions to save lives, protect
			property, and meet basic human needs. Also includes the execution of
			emergency operations plans as well as mitigation activities designed
			to limit the loss of life, personal injury, property damage, and
			other unfavorable outcomes.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Responsible_Fire_Agency">
		<glossterm>Responsible Fire Agency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Agency with primary responsibility for fire suppression on any
			particular land area.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Fire_Agency">
				<linktext>Fire Agency</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Responsible_Fire_Agency">
				<linktext>Responsible Fire Agency</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Restoration">
		<glossterm>Restoration</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The continuation of rehabilitation beyond the initial three
			years or the repair or replacement of major facilities damaged by
			the fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Restricted_Airspace">
		<glossterm>Restricted Airspace</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Airspace of defined dimensions identified by an area on the
			surface of the earth within the flight of an aircraft, which is
			subject to restrictions (but not wholly prohibited).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Restricted_Category">
		<glossterm>Restricted Category</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Aircraft that is generally used for cargo, retardant dropping,
			agricultural operations, survey work and other specific projects,
			and may not transport passengers.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Restrictions">
		<glossterm>Restrictions</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Measures taken by jurisdictional agencies to impose bans and
			standards of use on certain human activities that could lead to the
			cause of wildland fire. Restrictions may be applied to: smoking in
			designated areas; open flame; mechanical operations in high-risk
			areas; and off-road use.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Closure">
				<linktext>Closure</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Retardant">
		<glossterm>Retardant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A substance or chemical agent which reduces the flammability
			of combustibles.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Retardant_Base">
		<glossterm>Retardant Base</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Ground facilities for mixing, storing, and loading fire
			retardant into air tankers.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Retardant_Coverage">
		<glossterm>Retardant Coverage</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Area of fuel covered and degree of coverage on the fuel by a
			fire retardant, usually expressed in terms of gallons per hundred
			square feet (liters per square meter).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Retardant_Drop">
		<glossterm>Retardant Drop</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire retardant cascaded from an air tanker or
			helitanker.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Return_and_Hold">
		<glossterm>Return and Hold</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An order to an air tanker pilot to return to the retardant
			base and await further instructions; mission completed, further
			loads not required.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Reversible_Siamese">
		<glossterm>Reversible Siamese</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Hose fitting that performs the functions of a Siamese or a wye
			(i.e., to combine the flow from two lines into a single line or to
			permit two lines to be taken from a single line).</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SIMWYE</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Siamese">
				<linktext>Siamese</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Wye">
				<linktext>Wye</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rheologic_Properties">
		<glossterm>Rheologic Properties</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Flow characteristics of liquid fire retardants, especially
			their cohesiveness or ability to hold together while falling through
			the air.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rheology">
		<glossterm>Rheology</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Science of deformation and flow of fire retardants and other
			liquids, especially of the cohesiveness bodies and stress-strain
			relationship of their particles.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rich_Tool">
		<glossterm>Rich Tool</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A long-handled combination rake and cutting tool, the blade of
			which is constructed of a single row of mowing machine cutter teeth
			fastened to a piece of angle iron. Also called fire rake or council
			rake.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Council_Tool">
				<linktext>Council Tool</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ridge">
		<glossterm>Ridge</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An elongated area of relatively high atmospheric pressure
			extending from the center of a high-pressure region.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Surface_High">
				<linktext>Surface High</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ring_Fire">
		<glossterm>Ring Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire started by igniting the full perimeter of the intended
			burn area so that the ensuing fire fronts converge toward the center
			of the burn. Set around the outer perimeter of a resource to
			establish a protective black-line-buffer.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Risk">
		<glossterm>Risk</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The chance of fire starting as determined by the presence and
			activity of causative agents.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Risk1">
		<glossterm>Risk</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A chance of suffering harm or loss.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Risk2">
		<glossterm>Risk</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A causative agent.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Risk3">
		<glossterm>Risk</glossterm>
		<glossdef>(NFDRS) A number related to the potential of firebrands to
			which a given area will be exposed during the rating day.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Risk_Index">
		<glossterm>Risk Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A number related to the probability of a firebrand igniting a
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Risk_Management">
		<glossterm>Risk Management</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A continuous, five-step process that provides a systematic
			method for identifying and managing the risks associated with any
			operation.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>RM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Risk_Source">
		<glossterm>Risk Source</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Identifiable human activity that historically has been a major
			cause of wildfires on a protection unit; one of the eight general
			causes listed on the standard fire report.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Risk_Source_Ratio">
		<glossterm>Risk Source Ratio</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Portion of human-caused fires that have occurred on a
			protection unit chargeable to a specific risk source; calculated for
			each day of the week for each risk source.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rocker_Lug_Coupling">
		<glossterm>Rocker Lug Coupling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Hose coupling in which the lugs used for tightening or
			loosening are semicircular in shape and designed to pass over
			obstructions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Roll_Cloud">
		<glossterm>Roll Cloud</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A turbulent altocumulus-type cloud formation found in the lee
			of some large mountain barriers. The air in the cloud rotates around
			an axis parallel to the range. Also sometimes refers to part of the
			cloud base along the leading edge of a cumulonimbus cloud; it is
			formed by rolling action in the wind shear region between cool
			downdrafts within the cloud and warm updrafts outside the cloud.
			Also called rotor cloud.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rotor">
		<glossterm>Rotor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Assembly of airfoils (rotor blades), together with a hub and
			attachments, that rotates about an axis to provide lift and/or
			thrust on a helicopter.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rotor_Blast">
		<glossterm>Rotor Blast</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Air turbulence occurring under and around the main rotor of an
			operating helicopter. Also called rotor downwash.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rotor_Diameter">
		<glossterm>Rotor Diameter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The main rotor arc in feet and inches (meters). Used for
			planning helispot clearance.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rotorcraft">
		<glossterm>Rotorcraft</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An aircraft that depends principally on the lift generated by
			one or more rotors for its support in flight. Also called rotary
			wing.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Helicopter" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Helicopter</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rough">
		<glossterm>Rough</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The accumulation of living and dead ground and understory
			vegetation, especially grasses, forest litter, and draped dead
			needles, sometimes with addition of underbrush such as palmetto,
			gallberry, and wax myrtle. Most often used for southern pine
			types.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rough_Reduction">
		<glossterm>Rough Reduction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Reduction of fire hazard in rough, usually by prescribed
			burning.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Route_Card">
		<glossterm>Route Card</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Index card used by a dispatcher and frequently carried on fire
			apparatus which lists specific directions for responding to
			individual rural properties. The card frequently includes a
			description of the property, water sources available, and any
			special information pertinent to fire suppression and rescue
			operations. Also called running card.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Run_Of_a_Fire">
		<glossterm>Run (Of a Fire)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Rapid advance of the head of a fire, characterized by a marked
			transition in fireline intensity and rate of spread with respect to
			that noted before and after the advance.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Running_Fire">
		<glossterm>Running Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Behavior of a fire spreading rapidly with a well defined
			head.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rural">
		<glossterm>Rural</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any area wherein residences and other developments are
			scattered and intermingled with forest, range, or farm land and
			native vegetation or cultivated crops.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rural_Fire_District">
		<glossterm>Rural Fire District</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An organization established to provide fire protection to a
			designated geographic area outside of areas under municipal fire
			protection. Usually has some taxing authority and officials may be
			appointed or elected.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>RFD</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Rural_Fire_Protection">
		<glossterm>Rural Fire Protection</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire protection and firefighting problems that are outside of
			areas under municipal fire prevention and building regulations and
			that are usually remote from public water supplies.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="SAFENET">
		<glossterm>SAFENET</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A form and process, used by wildland firefighting agencies,
			for reporting and resolving incidents relating to firefighter
			safety. The information collected is used to determine long-term
			trends and problem areas within the wildland fire
			industry.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SAFENET</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Saddle">
		<glossterm>Saddle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Depression or pass in a ridgeline.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Safety_Advisory">
		<glossterm>Safety Advisory</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A safety alert addressing wildland fire safety information
			that isn't related to imminent or potential threats of
			injury.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Safety_Alert">
				<linktext>Safety Alert</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Safety_Alert">
		<glossterm>Safety Alert</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A warning or alert concerning critical information relating to
			firefighter safety, that is distributed via email through an NWCG
			mail server. There are three types of alerts: Safety Warning, Safety
			Advisory, and Safety Bulletin.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Safety_Advisory">
				<linktext>Safety Advisory</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Safety_Bulletin">
				<linktext>Safety Bulletin</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Safety_Warning">
				<linktext>Safety Warning</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Safety_Briefing">
		<glossterm>Safety Briefing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A safety briefing emphasizes key safety concerns on the
			incident and is presented at each briefing session. The safety
			briefing should contain information to alert incident personnel of
			potential risk/hazard considered to be most critical.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Safety_Bulletin">
		<glossterm>Safety Bulletin</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A safety alert containing a factual confirmation of a serious
			wildland fire accident, incident or fatality.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Safety_Alert">
				<linktext>Safety Alert</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Safety_Circle">
		<glossterm>Safety Circle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An obstruction-free circle around the (helicopter) landing
			pad.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Safety_Officer">
		<glossterm>Safety Officer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A member of the command staff responsible to the incident
			commander for monitoring and assessing hazardous and unsafe
			situations, and developing measures for assessing personnel
			safety.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Safety_Warning">
		<glossterm>Safety Warning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A safety alert addressing wildland fire safety hazards that
			pose an imminent threat, or have potential to pose a threat, to life
			or property.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Safety_Alert">
				<linktext>Safety Alert</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Safety_Zone">
		<glossterm>Safety Zone</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area cleared of flammable materials used for escape in the
			event the line is outflanked or in case a spot fire causes fuels
			outside the control line to render the line unsafe. In firing
			operations, crews progress so as to maintain a safety zone close at
			hand allowing the fuels inside the control line to be consumed
			before going ahead. Safety zones may also be constructed as integral
			parts of fuelbreaks; they are greatly enlarged areas which can be
			used with relative safety by firefighters and their equipment in the
			event of blowup in the vicinity.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Deployment_Zone">
				<linktext>Deployment Zone</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Salvo">
		<glossterm>Salvo</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Dropping by an air tanker of its entire load of fire retardant
			at one time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Salvo_Drop">
		<glossterm>Salvo Drop</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Total retardant or water load dropped all at once. Usually
			done to knock down a hot spot.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sample">
		<glossterm>Sample</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of a population; that portion of the population that is
			measured.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sample_Size">
		<glossterm>Sample Size</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The number of items or observations in a sample; usually
			denoted by lower case letter n.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sand_Table_Exercise">
		<glossterm>Sand Table Exercise</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A tactical decision game that employs a three-dimensional
			terrain model made from sand and various props to provide a visual
			representation of the situation described in the tactical decision
			game.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>STEX</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Scope_of_Practice">
		<glossterm>Scope of Practice</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The set of responsibilities and ethical considerations that
			define the extent or limits of the care provider within the current
			standards of practice.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Scorch_Height">
		<glossterm>Scorch Height</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Average heights of foliage browning or bole blackening caused
			by a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Scratch_Line">
		<glossterm>Scratch Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An unfinished preliminary control line hastily established or
			constructed as an emergency measure to check the spread of
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Scrubbing">
		<glossterm>Scrubbing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The process of agitating foam solution and air within a
			confined space (usually a hose) that produces tiny, uniform bubbles
			- the length and type of hose determine the amount of scrubbing and,
			therefore, foam quality.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sea-level_Pressure">
		<glossterm>Sea-level Pressure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Pressure value obtained by the theoretical reduction or
			increase of station pressure to sea level. The average atmospheric
			pressure at sea level is 14.7 psi.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sea_Breeze">
		<glossterm>Sea Breeze</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A breeze (wind) blowing inland from the sea generally during
			daytime hours.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Season_Code">
		<glossterm>Season Code</glossterm>
		<glossdef>One of four designations of seasonal plant development used in
			the 1988 version of NFDRS.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Seasonal_Monthly_Average">
		<glossterm>Seasonal Monthly Average</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Historically, the average number of human-caused fires
			occurring on a protection unit per month during the established fire
			season.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Seasonal_Risk_Class">
		<glossterm>Seasonal Risk Class</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Objective ranking of protection units within an administrative
			group based on the number of human-caused fires for at least the
			past five years.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Second-In-Command">
		<glossterm>Second-In-Command</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Pilot who is designated to be second-in-command of an aircraft
			during flight time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Second_Order_Fire_Effects">
		<glossterm>Second Order Fire Effects</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The secondary effects of fire such as tree regeneration, plant
			succession, and changes in site productivity. Although second order
			fire effects are dependent, in part, on first order fire effects,
			they also involve interaction with many other non-fire
			variables.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SOFE</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#First_Order_Fire_Effects">
				<linktext>First Order Fire Effects</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Secondary_Line">
		<glossterm>Secondary Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any fireline constructed at a distance from the fire perimeter
			concurrently with or after a line already constructed on or near to
			the perimeter of the fire. Generally constructed as an insurance
			measure in case the fire escapes control by the primary
			line.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Secondary_Lookout">
		<glossterm>Secondary Lookout</glossterm>
		<glossdef>(1) A lookout point intermittently used to supplement the
			visible area coverage of the primary lookout system when required by
			fire danger, poor visibility, or other factors. (2) The person who
			occupies such a station.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Secondary_Weather_Station">
		<glossterm>Secondary Weather Station</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Station at which minimum weather measurements are taken to
			compute ratings of burning conditions; provides supplementary
			information on weather experience.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Section">
		<glossterm>Section</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That organizational level with responsibility for a major
			functional area of the incident, such as operations, planning,
			logistics, finance/administration. The section is organizationally
			between branch and incident commander.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Security_Manager">
		<glossterm>Security Manager</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for providing security
			safeguards to protect incident personnel and prevent the loss or
			damage of incident equipment, supplies, and property and reports to
			the Facility Unit Leader.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SECM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Facilities_Unit">
				<linktext>Facilities Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Security_Weather_Watch">
		<glossterm>Security Weather Watch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Observers are posted at one or more strategic locations in the
			proximity of a fire to detect and warn fire personnel of pending
			critical weather changes that might significantly affect the
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Seen_Area">
		<glossterm>Seen Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Ground, or vegetation growing thereon, that is directly
			visible under specified atmospheric conditions from an established
			or proposed lookout point or aerial detection flight
			route.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Visible_Area_Map">
				<linktext>Visible Area Map</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Segment">
		<glossterm>Segment</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A geographical area in which a task force/strike team leader
			or supervisor of a single resource is assigned authority and
			responsibility for the coordination of resources and implementation
			of planned tactics. A segment may be a portion of a division or an
			area inside or outside the perimeter of an incident. Segments are
			identified with Arabic numbers, i.e., A-1, etc. and are not to be
			used as radio designators.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Self-Contained_Breathing_Apparatus">
		<glossterm>Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Portable air (not oxygen) tanks with regulators which allow
			firefighters to breathe while in toxic smoke conditions. Usually
			rated for 30 minutes of service. Used primarily on fires involving
			structures or hazardous materials.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SCBA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Air Pack</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Respirator">
				<linktext>Respirator</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Separation">
		<glossterm>Separation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Spacing of aircraft while landing and taking off at airports
			to achieve safe and orderly movement in flight.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Separation1">
		<glossterm>Separation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The horizontal and vertical spacing of aircraft working over
			or near a wildfire or other incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Separation2">
		<glossterm>Separation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Spacing of personnel while performing line construction
			activities.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Serious_Accident_Investigation_Team">
		<glossterm>Serious Accident Investigation Team</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A formal investigation team that is organized with the purpose
			of conducting an accident investigation for an occurred serious
			accident. The team is given full authorization to conduct the
			investigation from involved agencies through letter of
			delegation.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SAIT</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Serious_Aircraft_Incident">
		<glossterm>Serious Aircraft Incident</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An incident or malfunction that could adversely affect the
			safety of flight.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Aircraft_Incident">
				<linktext>Aircraft Incident</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Service_Branch">
		<glossterm>Service Branch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A branch within the logistics section responsible for service
			activities at the incident. Includes the communications, medical and
			food units.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Service_Branch_Director">
		<glossterm>Service Branch Director</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the Service
			Branch. Reports to the Logistics Section Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SVBD</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Service_Branch">
				<linktext>Service Branch</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Service_Center">
		<glossterm>Service Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Point of support for items not ordered through
			dispatch.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Set">
		<glossterm>Set</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An individual incendiary fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Set1">
		<glossterm>Set</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The point or points of origin of an incendiary
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Set2">
		<glossterm>Set</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Material left to ignite an incendiary fire at a later
			time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Set3">
		<glossterm>Set</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Individual lightning or railroad fires, especially when
			several are started within a short time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Set4">
		<glossterm>Set</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Burning material at the points deliberately ignited for
			backfiring, slash burning, prescribed burning, and other
			purposes.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Severity_Funding">
		<glossterm>Severity Funding</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Suppression funds used to increase the level of presuppression
			capability and fire preparedness when predicted or actual burning
			conditions exceed those normally expected, due to severe weather
			conditions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Severity_Index">
		<glossterm>Severity Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A number that indicates the relative net effects of daily fire
			danger on the fire load for an area during a specified period, such
			as a fire season.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Shaded_Fuelbreak">
		<glossterm>Shaded Fuelbreak</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fuelbreaks built in timbered areas where the trees on the
			break are thinned and pruned to reduce the fire potential yet retain
			enough crown canopy to make a less favorable microclimate for
			surface fires.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Shareable_Content_Object">
		<glossterm>Shareable Content Object</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Self-contained units of learning. They can be used as building
			blocks (or legos) to create packages (lessons) of SCOs, but they
			cannot be broken down into smaller units.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SCO</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Learning_Content_Management_System">
				<linktext>Learning Content Management System</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Learning_Objects">
				<linktext>Learning Objects</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Shareable_Content_Object_Re-usable_Model">
		<glossterm>Shareable Content Object Re-usable Model</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A specification for standardizing the reusability and
			interoperability of learning content. SCORM has been developed by
			the Advanced Distributed Learning initiative (ADL). SCORM focuses on
			two critical pieces of learning content interoperability: 1.) It
			defines an aggregation model for packaging learning content. 2.) It
			defines an API for enabling communications between learning content
			and the system that launches it.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SCORM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Learning_Content_Management_System">
				<linktext>Learning Content Management System</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Shock_Wave">
		<glossterm>Shock Wave</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The leading edge of an expanding air mass.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Short-Range_Spotting">
		<glossterm>Short-Range Spotting</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Firebrands, flaming sparks, or embers are carried by surface
			winds, starting new fires beyond the zone of direct ignition by the
			main fire. The range of such spotting is usually less than 1/4
			mile.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Short-Term">
		<glossterm>Short-Term</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Persons or work for which employment is less than 12 months
			(excluding firefighters hired for a particular fire).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Short-Term_Fire_Retardant">
		<glossterm>Short-Term Fire Retardant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire retardant that inhibits combustion primarily by the
			cooling and smothering action of water. Chemicals may be added to
			the water to alter its viscosity or retard its evaporation, thereby
			increasing its effectiveness.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Short_Takeoff_or_Landing_Aircraft">
		<glossterm>Short Takeoff or Landing Aircraft</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An aircraft which has the capability of operating from a STOL
			runway in accordance with applicable airworthiness and operating
			regulations.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossShortForm>STOL Aircraft</glossShortForm>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Short_Takeoff_or_Landing_Airstrip">
		<glossterm>Short Takeoff or Landing Airstrip</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Developed or undeveloped area that has been tested and will
			accommodate STOL aircraft.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossShortForm>STOL Airstrip</glossShortForm>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Shoulder_Carry">
		<glossterm>Shoulder Carry</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Method of carrying hose on the shoulders.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Shrub">
		<glossterm>Shrub</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A woody perennial plant differing from a perennial herb by its
			persistent and woody stem; and from a tree by its low stature and
			habit of branching from the base.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Shrub_Type">
		<glossterm>Shrub Type</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The two-category (evergreen, deciduous) classification of
			shrubs vegetation in the 1988 version of NFDRS.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Shutoff_Nozzle">
		<glossterm>Shutoff Nozzle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Common type of fire hose nozzle permitting stream flow to be
			controlled by the firefighter at the nozzle rather than only at the
			source of supply.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Shutoff_Pressure">
		<glossterm>Shutoff Pressure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Maximum pressure a centrifugal pump will attain when water
			flow is clamped or shut off.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Siamese">
		<glossterm>Siamese</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Hose fitting (preferably gated) for combining flow from two or
			more lines of hose into a single stream; one male coupling to two
			female couplings.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Reversible_Siamese">
				<linktext>Reversible Siamese</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Wye">
				<linktext>Wye</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Significant_Fire_Event">
		<glossterm>Significant Fire Event</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An event measured by the occurrence of fire(s) that requires
			mobilization of additional resources from outside the fire event
			area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Significant_Fire_Potential">
		<glossterm>Significant Fire Potential</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The likelihood a wildland fire event will require mobilization
			of additional resources from outside the area in which the fire
			situation originates.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Significant_Weather_Trigger">
		<glossterm>Significant Weather Trigger</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A weather phenomenon resulting in an environment that has a
			significant impact on fire spread, intensity, or occurrence.
			Example: strong wind, unstable air mass, etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Simms_Bucket">
		<glossterm>Simms Bucket</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Self-leveling helibucket slung under a helicopter which can be
			filled by hovering over a water source.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Simple_Hose_Lay">
		<glossterm>Simple Hose Lay</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A hoselay consisting of consecutively coupled lengths of hose
			without laterals. The lay is extended by inserting additional
			lengths of hose in the line between pumps and nozzle. Also called
			single hose lay.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Simulation">
		<glossterm>Simulation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An activity that imitates something real, but it's not real
			itself and it can be altered by users for the specific purpose of
			providing an experiential learning environment. (Examples: Sand
			Table Exercise or CBT/WBT Forest Service Wildland Fire Simulation
			Scenario Editor)</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Distributed_Incident_Simulation_Exercise">
				<linktext>Distributed Incident Simulation Exercise</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Single_Arsonist">
		<glossterm>Single Arsonist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An offender who intentionally sets one fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Single_Door_Drop">
		<glossterm>Single Door Drop</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Technique whereby fire retardant is released from only one
			compartment of an air tanker.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Single_Resource">
		<glossterm>Single Resource</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An individual, a piece of equipment and its personnel
			complement, or a crew or team of individuals with an identified work
			supervisor that can be used on an incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Single_Stage_Pump">
		<glossterm>Single Stage Pump</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Centrifugal pump with a single impeller.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Site_Preparation">
		<glossterm>Site Preparation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Removal or killing of unwanted vegetation, residue, etc. by
			use of fire, herbicides, or mechanical treatment in preparation for
			reforestation and future management.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Site_Preparation_Burning">
		<glossterm>Site Preparation Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire ignited to expose adequate mineral soil and control
			competing vegetation until seedlings of the desired species become
			established.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Situation_Analysis">
		<glossterm>Situation Analysis</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Analysis of factors which influence suppression of an escaped
			fire from which a plan of attack will be developed; includes
			development of alternative strategies of fire suppression and net
			effect of each.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Situation_Awareness">
		<glossterm>Situation Awareness</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An on-going process of gathering information by observation
			and by communication with others. This information is integrated to
			create an individual's perception of a given situation.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Situational Awareness</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Situation_Unit">
		<glossterm>Situation Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Functional unit within the planning section responsible for
			the collection, organization and analysis of incident status
			information, and for analysis of the situation as it progresses.
			Reports to the planning section chief.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Situation_Unit_Leader">
		<glossterm>Situation Unit Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the Situation
			Unit. Reports to the Planning Section Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SITL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Situation_Unit">
				<linktext>Situation Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Size_Class_of_Fire">
		<glossterm>Size Class of Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>As to size of wildfire: Class A - one-fourth acre or less;
			Class B - more than one-fourth acre, but less than 10 acres; Class C
			- 10 acres or more, but less than 100 acres; Class D - 100 acres or
			more, but less than 300 acres; Class E - 300 acres or more, but less
			than 1,000 acres; Class F - 1,000 acres or more, but less than 5,000
			acres; Class G - 5,000 acres or more.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Class_of_Fire">
				<linktext>Class of Fire</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sizeup">
		<glossterm>Sizeup</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The evaluation of the fire to determine a course of action for
			suppression.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Skid_Hose_Load">
		<glossterm>Skid Hose Load</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Load of hose specially arranged on top of a standard hose load
			to permit dropping the working line at the fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Skid_Trail">
		<glossterm>Skid Trail</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any road or trail formed by the process of skidding logs from
			stump to landing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Skidder_Unit">
		<glossterm>Skidder Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A self-contained unit consisting of a water tank, fire pump,
			and hose specially designed to be carried on a logging skidder for
			use in forest fire suppression.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Skimmer">
		<glossterm>Skimmer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any aircraft equipped to pick up water while moving on or over
			water.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sky_Cover">
		<glossterm>Sky Cover</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Amount of clouds and/or other obscuring phenomena that are
			detectable from the point of observation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Slash">
		<glossterm>Slash</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Debris resulting from such natural events as wind, fire, or
			snow breakage; or such human activities as road construction,
			logging, pruning, thinning, or brush cutting. It includes logs,
			chunks, bark, branches, stumps, and broken understory trees or
			brush.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Slash_Disposal">
		<glossterm>Slash Disposal</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Treatment of slash to reduce fire hazard or for other
			purposes. (Preferred to Brush Disposal).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sling">
		<glossterm>Sling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A net attached by a lanyard to a helicopter cargo hook and
			used to haul supplies.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sling_Load">
		<glossterm>Sling Load</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any cargo carried beneath a helicopter and attached by a lead
			line and swivel.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sling_Psychrometer">
		<glossterm>Sling Psychrometer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A hand operated instrument for obtaining wet and dry bulb
			temperature readings and, subsequently, relative
			humidity.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Slip-on_Tanker">
		<glossterm>Slip-on Tanker</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A tank, a live hose reel or tray, an auxiliary pump, and an
			engine combined into a single one-piece assembly which can be
			slipped onto a truck bed or trailer.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Slope_Class">
		<glossterm>Slope Class</glossterm>
		<glossdef>One of five categories used to describe the topography of a
			fire danger rating area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Slope_Percent">
		<glossterm>Slope Percent</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ratio between the amount of vertical rise of a slope and
			horizontal distance as expressed in a percent. One hundred feet of
			rise to 100 feet of horizontal distance equals 100
			percent.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Slope_Winds">
		<glossterm>Slope Winds</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Small scale convective winds that occur due to local heating
			and cooling of a natural incline of the ground.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#General_Winds">
				<linktext>General Winds</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Local_Winds">
				<linktext>Local Winds</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Slopover">
		<glossterm>Slopover</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire edge that crosses a control line or natural barrier
			intended to confine the fire.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Breakover</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Slug_Flow">
		<glossterm>Slug Flow</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The discharge of distinct pockets of water and air due to the
			insufficient mixing of foam concentrate, water, and air in a
			compressed air foam system.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Small_Aircraft">
		<glossterm>Small Aircraft</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An aircraft of 12,500 pounds (5,669 kg) or less, maximum
			certificated takeoff weight.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Smog">
		<glossterm>Smog</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Generally considered only photochemical air pollution.
			Originally meant a combination of smoke and fog.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Smoke">
		<glossterm>Smoke</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Small particles of carbon, tarry and water vapor resulting
			from the incomplete combustion of carbonaceous materials such as
			wood, coal or oil.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Smoke-Sensitive_Area">
		<glossterm>Smoke-Sensitive Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Area in which smoke from outside sources is intolerable, for
			reasons such as heavy population, existing air pollution, or
			intensive recreation or tourist use.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SSA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Smoke_Concentration">
		<glossterm>Smoke Concentration</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The amount of combustion products found in a specified volume
			of air, commonly expressed as micrograms of emission per cubic meter
			of air.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Smoke_Intrusion">
		<glossterm>Smoke Intrusion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Smoke from prescribed fire entering a designated area at
			unacceptable levels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Smoke_Management">
		<glossterm>Smoke Management</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The policies and practices implemented by air and natural
			resource managers directed at minimizing the amount of smoke
			entering populated areas or impacting sensitive sites, avoiding
			significant deterioration of air quality and violations of National
			Ambient Air Quality Standards, and mitigating human-caused
			visibility impacts in Class I areas.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Smoke_Pall">
		<glossterm>Smoke Pall</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Extensive, thick blanket of smoke spreading more or less
			horizontally from a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Smoke_Plume">
		<glossterm>Smoke Plume</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The gases, smoke, and debris that rise slowly from a fire
			while being carried along the ground because the buoyant forces are
			exceeded by those of the ambient surface wind.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Convection_Column">
				<linktext>Convection Column</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Smoke_Target">
		<glossterm>Smoke Target</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area that may be adversely affected by smoke from a
			prescribed burn. Also called smoke sensitive area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Smoke_Vent_Height">
		<glossterm>Smoke Vent Height</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Level, in the vicinity of the fire, at which the smoke ceases
			to rise and moves horizontally with the wind at that
			level.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Smokejumper">
		<glossterm>Smokejumper</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A specifically trained and certified firefighter who travels
			to wildland fires by aircraft and parachutes to the fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Smokey_Bear">
		<glossterm>Smokey Bear</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The symbol of the Cooperative Forest Fire Prevention Program
			since 1945. Smokey's image is protected by US Federal Law and is
			administered by the USDA Forest Service, the National Association of
			State Foresters and the Ad Council.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Smoking_As_a_Fire_Cause">
		<glossterm>Smoking (As a Fire Cause)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Wildfires caused by smokers from matches, lighters, tobacco,
			or other smoking material.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Smoldering_Combustion">
		<glossterm>Smoldering Combustion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Combined processes of dehydration, pyrolysis, solid oxidation,
			and scattered flaming combustion and glowing combustion, which occur
			after the flaming combustion phase of a fire; often characterized by
			large amounts of smoke consisting mainly of tars.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Smoldering</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Smoldering_Combustion_Phase">
		<glossterm>Smoldering Combustion Phase</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Phase of combustion immediately following flaming combustion.
			Emissions are at twice that of the flaming combustion
			phase.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Smoldering_Combustion">
				<linktext>Smoldering Combustion</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Snag">
		<glossterm>Snag</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A standing dead tree or part of a dead tree from which at
			least the leaves and smaller branches have fallen. Often called a
			stub, if less than 20 feet tall.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Snorkel_Tank">
		<glossterm>Snorkel Tank</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fixed tank attached to the belly of the helicopter that has
			a pump-driven snorkel attached. The helicopter hovers over the water
			source with the end of the snorkel immersed, the pump then fills the
			tank.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Soft_Suction">
		<glossterm>Soft Suction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Commonly accepted term for short length of large diameter soft
			hose used to connect a structural or wildland engine with a hydrant.
			No vacuum is involved because the hose is useful only when the
			engine receives water at a rate of flow in excess of the demand of
			the pump.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Solar_Radiation">
		<glossterm>Solar Radiation</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The amount of sunlight exposed to the fuels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Soot">
		<glossterm>Soot</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Carbon dust formed by incomplete combustion.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sooting_Indicators">
		<glossterm>Sooting Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The black, carbon based soot deposited on objects in the
			fire's path. Found on the side of objects towards the
			origin.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sortie">
		<glossterm>Sortie</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Single round trip made by an air tanker from a tanker base to
			a fire and return.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sound_Warbler">
		<glossterm>Sound Warbler</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A signaling device mounted on retardant aircraft which
			generates a tremulous siren sound to warn firefighters on the ground
			that a plane is approaching to drop retardant.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sounding_Upper_Air_Sounding">
		<glossterm>Sounding (Upper Air Sounding)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A sampling of upper air conditions made by means of
			instruments and a small radio transmitter on a free balloon.
			Automatic radio signals originated by action of weather instruments
			are sent to a ground receiver. These signals are interpreted for use
			in analyzing and predicting upper air conditions over a wide area of
			the earth. Weather elements determined at a number of altitude
			points as the balloon rises are temperature, atmospheric moisture,
			pressure, wind direction and speed. Similar soundings may be made
			using fixed balloons or tethersondes.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Radiosonde">
				<linktext>Radiosonde</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Source">
		<glossterm>Source</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A point, line, or area, at which mass or energy is added to a
			system, either instantaneously or continuously. Examples of sources
			in the context of air pollution are as follows: a smoke stack is a
			point source; a freeway is a line source; field or slash burning are
			area sources.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spalling">
		<glossterm>Spalling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Chipping or pitting of concrete, masonry, or stone
			surfaces.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spalling_Indicators">
		<glossterm>Spalling Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Craters or chips in the surface of rocks which indicate
			direction of fire spread.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Span">
		<glossterm>Span</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Distance equal to the wingspread of the air tanker being used;
			used for corrections right or left of the flight path.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Span_of_Control">
		<glossterm>Span of Control</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The supervisory ratio of from three-to-seven individuals, with
			five-to-one being established as optimum.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spanner">
		<glossterm>Spanner</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Metal wrench used to tighten and free hose
			connections.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spark_Arrester">
		<glossterm>Spark Arrester</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A device installed in a chimney, flue, or exhaust pipe to stop
			the emission of sparks and burning fragments.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Special_Interest_Group">
		<glossterm>Special Interest Group</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In WIMS, a group of weather stations.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SIG</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Special_Visual_Flight_Rules">
		<glossterm>Special Visual Flight Rules</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Aircraft operating in accordance with clearances within
			control zones in weather conditions less than the basic Visual
			Flight Rules weather minima.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>VFR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Specific_Heat">
		<glossterm>Specific Heat</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The heat required to raise a unit mass of a substance one
			degree kelvin. It is the heat capacity of a system per unit mass;
			i.e., the ratio of the heat absorbed (or released) to the
			corresponding temperature rise (or fall).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Specific_Origin_Area">
		<glossterm>Specific Origin Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The smaller area, within the general origin, that first shows
			the influence of wind, fuel and/or slope.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Speed_of_Attack">
		<glossterm>Speed of Attack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Elapsed time from origin of fire to arrival of the first
			suppression force.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spike-Out">
		<glossterm>Spike-Out</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Standby crew in an area of expected high fire occurrence,
			generally on a day of critical fire weather.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Split_Drop">
		<glossterm>Split Drop</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Retardant drop made from one compartment at a time from an air
			tanker with a multi-compartment tank.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Split_Flow">
		<glossterm>Split Flow</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A divergent wind field. Storms moving into a split field tend
			to lose strength. Winds are generally light in such a flow
			field.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spontaneous_Combustion">
		<glossterm>Spontaneous Combustion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Combustion of a thermally isolated material initiated by an
			internal chemical or biological reaction producing enough heat to
			cause ignition.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spot_Burning">
		<glossterm>Spot Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A modified form of broadcast slash burning in which the
			greater accumulations of slash are fired and the fire is confined to
			these spots. Sometimes called "Jackpot Burning" or
			"Jackpotting."</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spot_Fire">
		<glossterm>Spot Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire ignited outside the perimeter of the main fire by a
			firebrand.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spot_Fire_Technique">
		<glossterm>Spot Fire Technique</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A method of lighting prescribed fires where ignition points
			are set individually at a predetermined spacing and with
			predetermined timing throughout the area to be burned.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spot_Weather_Forecast">
		<glossterm>Spot Weather Forecast</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A special forecast issued to fit the time, topography, and
			weather of a specific incident. These forecasts are issued upon
			request of the user agency and are more detailed, timely, and
			specific than zone forecasts. Usually, on-site weather observations
			or a close, representative observation is required for a forecast to
			be issued.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#General_Fire_Weather_Forecast">
				<linktext>General Fire Weather Forecast</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Incident_Weather_Forecast">
				<linktext>Incident Weather Forecast</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spotter">
		<glossterm>Spotter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In smokejumping, rappelling, and paracargo operations, the
			individual responsible for selecting drop target and supervising all
			aspects of dropping smokejumpers, rappellers, or cargo.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spotting">
		<glossterm>Spotting</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Behavior of a fire producing sparks or embers that are carried
			by the wind and which start new fires beyond the zone of direct
			ignition by the main fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spray">
		<glossterm>Spray</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Water applied through an orifice in finely divided particles
			to absorb heat and smother fire, to protect exposures from radiated
			heat, and to carry water toward otherwise inaccessible
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spread_Component">
		<glossterm>Spread Component</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). A
			rating of the forward rate of spread of the head of a
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spread_Index">
		<glossterm>Spread Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A number used to indicate relative (not actual) rate of
			spread.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spread_Index_Meter">
		<glossterm>Spread Index Meter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Device for combining measured ratings of various fire danger
			factors into numerical classes or rates of spread.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Spur_Ridge">
		<glossterm>Spur Ridge</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A small ridge which extends finger-like from a main
			ridge.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Squall">
		<glossterm>Squall</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Sudden increase in wind speed to at least 17 mph (15 knots)
			that is sustained for at least 1 minute but not more than 5
			minutes.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Squall_Line">
		<glossterm>Squall Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any nonfrontal line or narrow band of active thunderstorms
			extending across the horizon. It is of importance to fire behavior
			due to accompanying strong gusty winds and the possibility of such a
			line passing between regular weather observation stations without
			being reported. Also called line squall.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Stable_Atmosphere">
		<glossterm>Stable Atmosphere</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Condition of the atmosphere in which the temperature decrease
			with increasing altitude is less than the dry adiabatic lapse rate.
			In this condition, the atmosphere tends to suppress large-scale
			vertical motion. Also called stable air.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Stable_Layer_of_Air">
		<glossterm>Stable Layer of Air</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A layer of air having a temperature change (lapse rate) of
			less than dry adiabatic (approximately -5.4 degrees F per 1,000
			feet) thereby retarding either upward or downward mixing of
			smoke.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Atmospheric_Inversion">
				<linktext>Atmospheric Inversion</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Atmospheric_Inversion1">
				<linktext>Atmospheric Inversion</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Atmospheric_Stability">
				<linktext>Atmospheric Stability</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Inversion">
				<linktext>Inversion</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Stack">
		<glossterm>Stack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Aircraft orbiting the rendezvous area; usually refers to
			vertical deployment at 500-foot (150 m) altitudinal separation
			between aircraft.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Staff_Ride">
		<glossterm>Staff Ride</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A case study of a previous incident that is conducted on the
			actual physical site where the incident occurred. A staff ride is an
			experiential learning method that involves three distinct parts: a
			preliminary study, a site visit, and a post-visit integration
			session.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Staffing_Index">
		<glossterm>Staffing Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A NFDRS component, index or related indicator (ignition
			component, spread component, energy release component, burning
			index, Keetch-Byram drought index) whose outputs are correlated to
			the local fire problem, used to determine staffing
			levels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Staffing_Level">
		<glossterm>Staffing Level</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The basis for decision support for daily staffing of initial
			attack resources and other activities. A level of readiness and an
			indicator or daily preparedness.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Staging_Area">
		<glossterm>Staging Area</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Locations set up at an incident where resources can be placed
			while awaiting a tactical assignment on a three (3) minute available
			basis. Staging Areas are managed by the Operations
			Section.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Staging_Area_Manager">
		<glossterm>Staging Area Manager</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising a staging area.
			Reports to a Branch Director or Operations Section Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>STAM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Staging_Area">
				<linktext>Staging Area</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Stagnant_Conditions">
		<glossterm>Stagnant Conditions</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Atmospheric conditions under which pollutants build up faster
			than the atmosphere can disperse them.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Staining_Indicators">
		<glossterm>Staining Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Glossy, varnish-like stain, usually light yellow to orange to
			dark brown in color, which is deposited on the origin side of
			objects.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Stand-By_Crew">
		<glossterm>Stand-By Crew</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A group of trained firefighters stationed at a dispatch point
			for quick, rapid deployment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Stand_Replacing_Fire">
		<glossterm>Stand Replacing Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire which kills all or most of the living overstory trees in
			a forest and initiates forest succession or regrowth. Also
			explicitly describes the nature of fire in grasslands and some
			shrublands.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Standard_Coupling">
		<glossterm>Standard Coupling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire hose coupling with American National Standard (NH)
			threads.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Standard_Drying_Day">
		<glossterm>Standard Drying Day</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). Day
			which produces the same net drying as experienced during a 24-hour
			period under laboratory conditions in which dry-bulb temperature is
			maintained at 80° F and relative humidity is maintained at and
			relative humidity is maintained at 20%.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Standard_Hydrologic_Exchange_Format_code">
		<glossterm>Standard Hydrologic Exchange Format code</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A two-character code to describe each measurement taken at a
			weather station.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SHEF</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Standard_Operating_Procedure">
		<glossterm>Standard Operating Procedure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Specific instructions clearly spelling out what is expected of
			an individual every time they perform a given task. A standard
			operating procedure can be used as a performance standard for tasks
			that are routinely done in the operational environment.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SOP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Standard_Operational_Procedure" role="other"
				otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Standard Operational Procedure</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Standard_Operational_Procedure">
		<glossterm>Standard Operational Procedure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Specific instructions clearly spelling out what is expected of
			an individual every time they perform a given task. A standard
			operational procedure can be used as a performance standard for
			tasks that are routinely done in the operational
			environment.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SOP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Standard_Operating_Procedure" role="other"
				otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Standard Operating Procedure</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="State_Forest">
		<glossterm>State Forest</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Forests owned and administered by a state, and not by a
			federal government.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="State_Implementation_Plan">
		<glossterm>State Implementation Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A plan required by the Clean Air Act and prepared by an Air
			Quality Regulatory Agency, which describes how the state will attain
			and maintain air quality so as to not violate National Ambient Air
			Quality Standards.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SIP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="State_Park">
		<glossterm>State Park</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area established by the government of a state primarily for
			public recreation or for the preservation of unique natural or
			historic resources, administrative details varying widely. NOTE:
			Such parks may also be established by lesser administrative units,
			e.g. counties, municipalities, and also by large private
			owners.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="State_of_Weather">
		<glossterm>State of Weather</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A code which expresses the amount of cloud cover, kind of
			precipitation, and/or restrictions to visibility being observed at
			the fire danger station at basic observation time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Static_Pressure">
		<glossterm>Static Pressure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Water pressure head available at a specific location when no
			water is being used so that no friction loss is being encountered.
			Static pressure is that pressure observed on the engine inlet gauge
			before any water is taken from the hydrant.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Static_Water_Supply">
		<glossterm>Static Water Supply</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Supply of water at rest which does not provide a pressure head
			for fire suppression but which may be employed as a suction source
			for fire pumps (e.g., water in a reservoir, pond, or
			cistern).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Station_Catalog">
		<glossterm>Station Catalog</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A WIMS file that contains all the information defined for a
			weather station.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Station_ID">
		<glossterm>Station ID</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A six-digit number assigned to a specific weather station by
			the servicing National Weather Service Fire Weather
			Office.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Station_Pressure">
		<glossterm>Station Pressure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Pressure of the atmosphere at an assigned station location and
			elevation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Statistic">
		<glossterm>Statistic</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The number that results from manipulating raw data according
			to a specified procedure; associated with samples.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Parameter">
				<linktext>Parameter</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Statistical_Fire">
		<glossterm>Statistical Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In general, an actionable fire, on which any fire agency
			reports and maintains specified information (e.g., cause, date and
			point of origin, size, fire damage).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Statistics">
		<glossterm>Statistics</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A branch of mathematics dealing with the collection, analysis,
			and interpretation of numerical data.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Status_Check-In_Recorder">
		<glossterm>Status/Check-In Recorder</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for checking in and
			maintaining current status for incident assigned resources and
			reports to the Resources Unit Leader. Each incident check-in
			location will have at least one Check-In Recorder
			assigned.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SCKN</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Resources_Unit">
				<linktext>Resources Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Step_Test">
		<glossterm>Step Test</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Five-minute test used to predict a person's ability to take
			in, transport, and use oxygen (aerobic capacity), the most important
			factor limiting the ability to perform arduous work.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Storm_Center">
		<glossterm>Storm Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The central point or area of a weather system associated with
			increased winds, clouds or precipitation (or any combination
			thereof).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Straight_Stream">
		<glossterm>Straight Stream</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Water or fire retardant projected directly from the nozzle (as
			contrasted with a fog or spray cone), provided by a solid stream
			orifice or by adjusting a fog jet into a straight stream
			pattern.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Straight_Stream_Nozzle">
		<glossterm>Straight Stream Nozzle</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A hose tip spout designed to provide the maximum reach of
			water without feathering.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Strainer">
		<glossterm>Strainer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A wire or metal guard used to keep debris from clogging pipe
			or other openings made for removing water; used in pumps and on
			suction hose to keep foreign material from clogging or damaging
			pumps.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Strategy">
		<glossterm>Strategy</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The general plan or direction selected to accomplish incident
			objectives.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Strength_of_Attack">
		<glossterm>Strength of Attack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Number of resources used to attack a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Strength_of_Force">
		<glossterm>Strength of Force</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Total firefighting resources available, during a specified
			period, to conduct and support firefighting operations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Strike_Team">
		<glossterm>Strike Team</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Specified combinations of the same kind and type of resources,
			with common communications, and a leader.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Strike_Team_Leader">
		<glossterm>Strike Team Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising a strike team.
			Reports to a Division/Group Supervisor or Operations Section Chief.
			This position may supervise a strike team of engines (STEN), crews
			(STCR), dozers (STDZ),or tractor/plows (STPL).</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>STCR, STDZ, STEN or STPL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Strike_Team">
				<linktext>Strike Team</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Strike_Team_Leader_Dozer">
		<glossterm>Strike Team Leader Dozer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for the direct supervision of
			a dozer strike team.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>STDZ</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Strike_Team">
				<linktext>Strike Team</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Strike_Team_Leader_Engine">
		<glossterm>Strike Team Leader Engine</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for the direct supervision of
			an engine strike team.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>STEN</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Strike_Team">
				<linktext>Strike Team</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Strike_Team_Leader_Tractor_Plow">
		<glossterm>Strike Team Leader Tractor/Plow</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for the direct supervision of
			a tractor/plow strike team.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>STPL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Strike_Team">
				<linktext>Strike Team</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Strike_Team_leader_Crew">
		<glossterm>Strike Team leader Crew</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for the direct supervision of
			a crew strike team.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>STCR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Strike_Team">
				<linktext>Strike Team</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Stringer">
		<glossterm>Stringer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A narrow finger or band of fuel that connects two or more
			patches or areas of wildland fuel.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Strip-Head_Fire">
		<glossterm>Strip-Head Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A series of lines of fire ignited near and up wind (or
			downslope) of a firebreak or backing fire so they burn with the wind
			(or upslope) toward the firebreak or backing fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Strip_Burning">
		<glossterm>Strip Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Burning by means of strip firing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Strip_Burning1">
		<glossterm>Strip Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In hazard reduction, burning narrow strips of fuel and leaving
			the rest of the area untreated by fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Strip_Firing">
		<glossterm>Strip Firing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Setting fire to more than one strip of fuel and providing for
			the strips to burn together. Frequently done in burning out against
			a wind where inner strips are fired first to create drafts which
			pull flames and sparks away from the control line.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Structural_Fire_Protection">
		<glossterm>Structural Fire Protection</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The protection of homes or other structures from wildland
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Structure">
		<glossterm>Structure</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A constructed object, usually a free-standing building above
			ground.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Structure_Vegetative">
		<glossterm>Structure (Vegetative)</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The arrangement of vegetation in terms of density, basal area,
			cover, and vertical arrangement.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Structure_Fire">
		<glossterm>Structure Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire originating in and burning any part or all of any
			building, shelter, or other structure.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Structure_Protection_Plan">
		<glossterm>Structure Protection Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A plan developed by the Structure Protection Specialist that
			provides operational guidelines to suppression resources responsible
			for providing wildland fire structure protection.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Structure_Protection_Specialist">
				<linktext>Structure Protection Specialist</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Structure_Protection_Specialist">
		<glossterm>Structure Protection Specialist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An individual responsible for developing an incident's
			structure protection plan, providing tactical direction and
			recommendations to incident planning and operations on efficient and
			safe utilization of resources assigned to provide wildland fire
			structure protection.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>STPS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Structure_Protection_Plan">
				<linktext>Structure Protection Plan</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Subsidence">
		<glossterm>Subsidence</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Downward or sinking motion of air in the atmosphere. Subsiding
			air warms due to compression. Increasing temperature and decreasing
			humidities are present in subsiding air. Subsidence results in a
			stable atmosphere inhibiting dispersion. Subsidence is generally
			associated with high atmospheric pressure.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Subsidence_Inversion">
		<glossterm>Subsidence Inversion</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An inversion caused by subsiding air, often resulting in
			decreased atmospheric mixing conditions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Succession">
		<glossterm>Succession</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The process of vegetational development whereby an area
			becomes successively occupied by different plant communities of
			higher ecological order.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Suction_Lift">
		<glossterm>Suction Lift</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In fire service, the number of feet (meters) of vertical lift
			from the surface of the water to the center of the pump impeller. In
			testing, e.g., fire department pumpers are required to discharge
			their rated capacity at 150 pounds (1034 kPa) net pump pressure at a
			10-foot (3 meter) lift. The suction gauge would indicate the
			vertical suction lift in inches of mercury when the pump was primed
			with no appreciable water flowing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sunny">
		<glossterm>Sunny</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The adjective classification of the sky when 5/10 or less of
			the sky is obscured by clouds. Part of the National Fire Danger
			Rating System (NFDRS).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sunset_and_Sunrise">
		<glossterm>Sunset and Sunrise</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The mean solar times of sunset and sunrise as published in the
			Nautical Almanac, converted to local standard time for the locality
			concerned.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Superficial_Burn">
		<glossterm>Superficial Burn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A minor thermal burn involving the outer layer of skin, i.e.
			"a sunburn". It is characterized by reddening of the skin and
			perhaps some swelling without blisters. (also called First Degree
			Burn)</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Full-thickness_Burn">
				<linktext>Full-thickness Burn</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Partial-thickness_Burn">
				<linktext>Partial-thickness Burn</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Supervisor">
		<glossterm>Supervisor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS title for individuals responsible for command of a
			division or group.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Supplemental_Fire_Department_Resources">
		<glossterm>Supplemental Fire Department Resources</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Overhead tied to a local fire department, generally by
			agreement, who are mobilized primarily for response to incidents or
			wildland fires outside their district or mutual aid zone.
			Supplemental fire department resources are not a permanent part of
			the local fire organization and are not required to attend scheduled
			training, meetings, etc. of the department staff.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Supplies">
		<glossterm>Supplies</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Minor items of equipment and all expendable items assigned to
			an incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Supply_Unit">
		<glossterm>Supply Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Functional unit within the support branch of the logistics
			section responsible for ordering equipment and supplies required for
			incident operations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Supply_Unit_Leader">
		<glossterm>Supply Unit Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the Supply Unit.
			Reports to the Support Branch Director or Logistics Section
			Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SPUL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Supply_Unit">
				<linktext>Supply Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Support_Branch">
		<glossterm>Support Branch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A branch within the logistics section responsible for
			providing personnel, equipment and supplies to support incident
			operations. Includes the supply, facilities and ground support
			units.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Support_Branch_Director">
		<glossterm>Support Branch Director</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the Support
			Branch. Reports to the Logistics Section Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>SUBD</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Support_Branch">
				<linktext>Support Branch</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Support_Costs">
		<glossterm>Support Costs</glossterm>
		<glossdef>On-incident costs and off-incident costs. On-incident costs
			include caterer, shower units, mobile commissary, cache supplies,
			and materials, etc. Off-incident costs include expanded dispatch,
			buying teams, administrative payment teams, cache personnel, area
			command, transportation to/from incident, etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Support_Resources">
		<glossterm>Support Resources</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Non-tactical resources under the supervision of the logistics,
			planning, finance/administration sections or the command
			staff.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Supporting_Agency">
		<glossterm>Supporting Agency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An agency providing suppression or other support and resource
			assistance to a protecting agency.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Agency">
				<linktext>Agency</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Assisting_Agency">
				<linktext>Assisting Agency</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Cooperating_Agency">
				<linktext>Cooperating Agency</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Supporting_Technologies">
		<glossterm>Supporting Technologies</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any technology which may be used to support NIIMS. Examples of
			these technologies include GIS mapping, infrared technology, NFDRS,
			communications, dispatch coordination, and national cache
			system.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#National_Interagency_Incident_Management_System">
				<linktext>National Interagency Incident Management
					System</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Suppressant">
		<glossterm>Suppressant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An agent that extinguishes the flaming and glowing phases of
			combustion by direct application to the burning fuel.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Suppression">
		<glossterm>Suppression</glossterm>
		<glossdef>All the work of extinguishing or confining a fire beginning
			with its discovery.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Suppress a Fire</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Suppression_Crew">
		<glossterm>Suppression Crew</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Two or more firefighters stationed at a strategic location for
			initial action on fires. Duties are essentially the same as those of
			individual firefighters.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Suppression_Firing">
		<glossterm>Suppression Firing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Intentional application of fire to speed up or strengthen fire
			suppression action on wildfires. Types of suppression firing include
			burning out, counter firing, and strip burning.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Surface_Area-to-Volume_Ratio">
		<glossterm>Surface Area-to-Volume Ratio</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ratio between the surface area of an object, such as a
			fuel particle, to its volume. The smaller the particle, the more
			quickly it can become wet, dry out, or become heated to combustion
			temperature during a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Surface_Fire">
		<glossterm>Surface Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire that burns loose debris on the surface, which includes
			dead branches, leaves, and low vegetation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Surface_Fuel">
		<glossterm>Surface Fuel</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fuels lying on or near the surface of the ground, consisting
			of leaf and needle litter, dead branch material, downed logs, bark,
			tree cones, and low stature living plants.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Surface_High">
		<glossterm>Surface High</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area on the earth's surface where atmospheric pressure is
			at a relative maximum. Winds blow clockwise around highs in the
			Northern Hemisphere but, due to friction with the earth's face, tend
			to cross constant pressure lines away from the high center. Air is
			usually subsiding above a surface high. This causes warming due to
			air compression. This results in stable atmospheric conditions and
			light surface winds.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Ridge">
				<linktext>Ridge</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Surface_Low">
		<glossterm>Surface Low</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area on the earth's surface where atmospheric pressure is
			at a relative minimum. Winds blow counter-clockwise around lows in
			the Northern Hemisphere but, due to friction with the earth's
			surface, tend to cross constant pressure lines toward the low
			center. Upon converging into the low's center, air currents are
			forced to rise. As air rises it cools due to expansion. Cooling
			reduces its capacity to hold moisture; so cloudiness and
			precipitation are common in lows. If a low center intensifies
			sufficiently it will take on the characteristics of a storm center
			with precipitation and strong winds.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Surface_Tension">
		<glossterm>Surface Tension</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The elastic-like force at the surface of a liquid, tending to
			minimize the surface area and causing drops to form. Expressed as
			Newtons per meter or dynes per centimeter (1 Newton/m=1,000
			dynes/cm).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Surface_Wind">
		<glossterm>Surface Wind</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Wind measured at a surface observing station, customarily at
			some distance (usually 20 feet) above the average vegetative surface
			to minimize the distorting effects of local obstacles and
			terrain.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Surfactant">
		<glossterm>Surfactant</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A surface active agent; any wetting agent. A formulation
			which, when added to water in proper amounts, will materially reduce
			the surface tension of the water and increase penetration and
			spreading abilities of the water.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Surge">
		<glossterm>Surge</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Rapid increase in water flow which may result in a
			corresponding pressure rise.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Surplus_Property">
		<glossterm>Surplus Property</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any excess personal property not required for the needs and
			the discharge of the responsibilities of all federal agencies as
			determined by the General Services Administration (GSA).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Survival_Zone">
		<glossterm>Survival Zone</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A natural or cleared area of sufficient size and location to
			protect fire personnel from known hazards while inside a fire
			shelter. Examples include rock slides, road beds, clearings, knobs,
			wide ridges, benches, dozer lines, wet areas, cleared areas in light
			fuels, and previously burned areas. These are all areas where you
			expect no flame contact or prolonged heat and smoke.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Deployment_Zone">
				<linktext>Deployment Zone</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Safety_Zone">
				<linktext>Safety Zone</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Sustained_Attack">
		<glossterm>Sustained Attack</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Continuing fire suppression action until fire is under
			control.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Swamper">
		<glossterm>Swamper</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A worker who assists fallers and/or sawyers by clearing away
			brush, limbs and small trees. Carries fuel, oil and tools and
			watches for dangerous situations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Swamper1">
		<glossterm>Swamper</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A worker on a dozer crew who pulls winch line, helps maintain
			equipment, etc., to speed suppression work on a fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Swampout">
		<glossterm>Swampout</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Act of clearing brush and other material from around the base
			of trees and where trees are to be bucked, prior to falling or
			bucking, as protection against saw kickback and to provide safe
			footing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Swivel">
		<glossterm>Swivel</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An accessory used between the helicopter cargo hook and sling
			load to allow free turning of the load.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Synoptic">
		<glossterm>Synoptic</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Literally, at one time. Thus, in meteorological usage, the
			weather conditions over a large area at a given point in
			time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Synoptic_Chart">
		<glossterm>Synoptic Chart</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In meteorology, any chart or map on which data and analyses
			are presented that describe the state of the atmosphere over a large
			area at a given moment in time.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="T-Card">
		<glossterm>T-Card</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Cards filled out with essential information for each resource
			they represent. The cards are color-coded to represent different
			types of resources.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tactical_Decision_Game">
		<glossterm>Tactical Decision Game</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A simple role-play simulation technique that challenges
			participants to make decisions and communicate those decisions to
			others. A tactical decision game is an experiential learning method
			that is tactical in nature and has time and information constraints
			to put participants under some level of stress.
			http://www.fireleadership.gov</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>TDGS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tactical_Direction">
		<glossterm>Tactical Direction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Direction given by the operations section chief which includes
			the tactics appropriate for the selected strategy, the selection and
			assignment of resources, tactics implementation, and performance
			monitoring for each operational period.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tactics">
		<glossterm>Tactics</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Deploying and directing resources on an incident to accomplish
			the objectives designated by strategy.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tag-on">
		<glossterm>Tag-on</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Connecting a (airtanker) drop to the forward part of a
			previous drop.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tail_Rotor">
		<glossterm>Tail Rotor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A small rotor, mounted on the tail of a conventional
			helicopter, which counteracts torque of the main rotor and provides
			a measure of directional control.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tailboard">
		<glossterm>Tailboard</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Back step of a wildland or structural fire engine.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tailgate_Safety_Session">
		<glossterm>Tailgate Safety Session</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Brief meetings held at the beginning, during, or end of an
			operational period to discuss new work assignments, new work
			methods, changes in plans, use of tools and equipment, and
			recognition and protection against work hazards that may be
			encountered.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Take-off_and_Landing_Coordinator">
		<glossterm>Take-off and Landing Coordinator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This ICS position is responsible for coordinating take-offs
			and landings of helicopters at a helibase and any helicopter
			movement around the helibase and reports to the Helibase
			Manager.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>TOLC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Helibase">
				<linktext>Helibase</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tandem">
		<glossterm>Tandem</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Two or more units of any one type working one in front of the
			other to accomplish a specific fire suppression job; the term can be
			used in connection with crews of firefighters, power pumps,
			bulldozers, etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tank_Trailer">
		<glossterm>Tank Trailer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Specialized trailer on which is mounted a tank, fire pump,
			hose, and ancillary equipment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tank_and_Gating_System">
		<glossterm>Tank and Gating System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Tanks, doors, and release mechanism installed in aircraft for
			cascading fire retardants.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Target">
		<glossterm>Target</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Specific portion of the fire on which fire retardant or water
			is to be dropped by air tankers or helitankers.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Drop_Zone">
				<linktext>Drop Zone</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Target_Hazard">
		<glossterm>Target Hazard</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Facilities in which there is great likelihood of loss of life
			or property.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Task">
		<glossterm>Task</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A unit of work activity that is a logical and necessary action
			in the performance of a behavior; how the behavior is demonstrated
			or performed in a particular context.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Behavior">
				<linktext>Behavior</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Task_Force">
		<glossterm>Task Force</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any combination of single resources assembled for a particular
			tactical need, with common communications and a leader. A task force
			may be pre-established and sent to an incident, or formed at an
			incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Task_Force_Leader">
		<glossterm>Task Force Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising a task force.
			Reports to a Division/Group Supervisor or Operations Section
			Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>TFLD</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Task_Force">
				<linktext>Task Force</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Technical_Advisory_Unit">
		<glossterm>Technical Advisory Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>This unit consists of advisors with special skills who are
			activated only when needed. Advisors may be needed in the areas of
			water resources, environmental concerns, resource use, and
			training.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Technical_Specialist">
		<glossterm>Technical Specialist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An individual with specialized job skills requiring no
			established minimum qualifications standards by the wildland fire
			community. THSP may perform the same duties during an incident that
			are performed in their regular job assignment with supplemental
			training in the Incident Command System and/or adaptations of their
			specialized skills for the incident environment that they are
			assigned. These specialized individuals whose skills may be gained
			through educational degree programs or industrial training required
			by established standards may be utilized anywhere within an incident
			organization.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>THSP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Temperature_Coefficient">
		<glossterm>Temperature Coefficient</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The relative change of some measurable quantity with change of
			temperature, like burning time per unit length, mostly expressed as
			mean change per degree in percentage of mean temperature within a
			certain range.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Temporary_Flight_Restriction">
		<glossterm>Temporary Flight Restriction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A restriction requested by an agency and put into effect by
			the Federal Aviation Administration in the vicinity of an incident
			which restricts the operation of nonessential aircraft in the
			airspace around that incident.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>TFR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ten-hour_Timelag_Fuel_Moisture">
		<glossterm>Ten-hour Timelag Fuel Moisture</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The moisture content of the l0-hour timelag roundwood
			fuels.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>10-h TL FM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ten-hour_Timelag_Fuels">
		<glossterm>Ten-hour Timelag Fuels</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Dead fuels consisting of roundwood 1/4 to l-inch (0.6 to 2.5
			cm) in diameter and, very roughly, the layer of litter extending
			from immediately below the surface to 3/4 inch (1.9 cm) below the
			surface.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Ten-hour_Timelag_Fuel_Moisture">
				<linktext>Ten-hour Timelag Fuel Moisture</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Terra_Torch">
		<glossterm>Terra Torch ®</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Device for throwing a stream of flaming liquid, used to
			facilitate rapid ignition during burn out operations on a wild fire
			or during a prescribed fire operation.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Flame_Thrower" role="other" otherrole="synonym">
				<linktext>Flame Thrower</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Terrorism">
		<glossterm>Terrorism</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any premeditated, unlawful act dangerous to human life or
			public welfare that is intended to intimidate or coerce civilian
			populations or governments.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Test_Fire">
		<glossterm>Test Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A prescribed fire set to evaluate such things as fire
			behavior, fire effects, detection performance, or control
			measures.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Thermal_Belt">
		<glossterm>Thermal Belt</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area of mountainous slope (characteristically the middle
			third), where the top of the radiation inversion intersects the
			slope. It typically experiences the least variation in diurnal
			temperatures and has the highest average temperatures and, thus, the
			lowest relative humidity. Its presence is most evident during clear
			weather with light wind.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Thermal_Imagery">
		<glossterm>Thermal Imagery</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The display or printout of an infrared scanner operating over
			a fire. Also called infrared imagery.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Infrared">
				<linktext>Infrared</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Thin_Layer">
		<glossterm>Thin Layer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Layer of clouds whose ratio of dense sky cover to total sky
			cover is 1/2 or less.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Thin_Sky_Cover">
		<glossterm>Thin Sky Cover</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Sky cover through which higher clouds or the sky can be
			detected.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Threat_Fire">
		<glossterm>Threat Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any uncontrolled fire near to or heading toward an area under
			organized fire protection.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Throw_Out">
		<glossterm>Throw Out</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Soil pushed over the edge of a fireline by a tractor plow or
			dozer.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Berm">
				<linktext>Berm</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Thunderstorm">
		<glossterm>Thunderstorm</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Localized storm characterized by one or more electrical
			discharge(s).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tie-In">
		<glossterm>Tie-In</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Act of connecting a control line to another fireline or an
			intended firebreak.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Time-Temperature_Curve">
		<glossterm>Time-Temperature Curve</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Graph showing the increase in temperature at a specified point
			in a fire as a function of time, beginning with ignition and ending
			with burnout.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Time_Delay_Device">
		<glossterm>Time Delay Device</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A device employed to allow a fire setter the opportunity to
			leave the scene prior to the ignition of the fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Time_Unit">
		<glossterm>Time Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Functional unit within the Finance/Administration Section
			responsible for recording personnel time and managing the
			commissary.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Time_Unit_Leader">
		<glossterm>Time Unit Leader</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS position responsible for supervising the Time Unit.
			Reports to the Finance/Administration Section Chief.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>TIME</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Time_Unit">
				<linktext>Time Unit</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Time_in_Service">
		<glossterm>Time in Service</glossterm>
		<glossdef>With respect to maintenance time records, the time from the
			moment an aircraft leaves the surface of the earth until it touches
			at the next point of landing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Timelag">
		<glossterm>Timelag</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Time needed under specified conditions for a fuel particle to
			lose about 63 percent of the difference between its initial moisture
			content and its equilibrium moisture content. If conditions remain
			unchanged, a fuel will reach 95 percent of its equilibrium moisture
			content after 4 timelag periods.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>TL</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tinder">
		<glossterm>Tinder</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Burnable organic material (duff, peat, rotten wood, etc.) with
			a high surface to volume ratio.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tips">
		<glossterm>Tips</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Nozzle tips used to change orifice size of a hose
			stream.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tool_and_Equipment_Specialist">
		<glossterm>Tool and Equipment Specialist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible to the receiving/distribution manager for
			sharpening, servicing, and repairing hand tools.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Torch">
		<glossterm>Torch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Ignition and subsequent envelopment in flames, usually from
			bottom to top, of a tree or small group of trees.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Torch1">
		<glossterm>Torch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>To set fire to property deliberately and
			maliciously.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Torch2">
		<glossterm>Torch</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A professional firesetter-for-hire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Torching">
		<glossterm>Torching</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The burning of the foliage of a single tree or a small group
			of trees, from the bottom up.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Candling</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Total_Fuel">
		<glossterm>Total Fuel</glossterm>
		<glossdef>All plant material both living and dead that can burn in a
			worst case situation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Total_Mobility">
		<glossterm>Total Mobility</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The capability to move, position, and utilize established
			forces to meet existing and anticipated fire protection needs
			nationwide.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Total_Risk">
		<glossterm>Total Risk</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). Sum of
			lightning and human-caused risk values; cannot exceed a value of
			100.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Total_Suspended_Particulate_Matter">
		<glossterm>Total Suspended Particulate Matter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Particles emitted from a pollution source regardless of size.
			Federal and state ambient and emission standards exist for
			TSP.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>TSP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Touchdown_Pad">
		<glossterm>Touchdown Pad</glossterm>
		<glossdef>That portion of a heliport or helispot where the helicopter
			lands.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Toxic">
		<glossterm>Toxic</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Relating to a harmful effect by a poisonous substance on the
			human body by physical contact, ingestion, or inhalation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Toxic_Substance">
		<glossterm>Toxic Substance</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A chemical or mixture that may present an unreasonable risk of
			injury to health or the environment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tractor">
		<glossterm>Tractor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A rubber tired or tracked rider-controlled automotive vehicle,
			used in wildland fire management for pulling a disk or a plow to
			construct fireline by exposing mineral soil.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Dozer">
				<linktext>Dozer</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Plow_Line">
				<linktext>Plow Line</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Tractor_Plow">
				<linktext>Tractor Plow</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Tractor_Plow">
		<glossterm>Tractor Plow</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any tractor with a plow for constructing fireline by exposing
			mineral soil. Also as a resource for typing purposes, a tractor plow
			includes the transportation and personnel for its
			operation.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Dozer">
				<linktext>Dozer</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Plow_Line">
				<linktext>Plow Line</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Tractor">
				<linktext>Tractor</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Traffic_Pattern">
		<glossterm>Traffic Pattern</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Traffic flow that is prescribed for aircraft landing at,
			taxiing on, and taking off from, an airport. Usual components of a
			traffic pattern are upwind leg, crosswind leg, downwind leg, base
			leg, and final approach.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Trail_Drop">
		<glossterm>Trail Drop</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An unbroken line of retardant used for constructing a
			retardant line.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Trailer">
		<glossterm>Trailer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Combustible material, such as rolled rag, blankets and
			newspapers, or flammable liquid, used to spread fire from one area
			to others; usually used in conjunction with an incendiary
			device.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Trainee">
		<glossterm>Trainee</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An individual who has met all required training and position
			experience for a specified position and is approved by their home
			unit's certifying official, to initiate a performance based training
			assignment in order to become qualified in the position.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Trainer_Coach">
		<glossterm>Trainer/Coach</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A position-qualified individual who provides instruction to a
			trainee in the classroom, on-the-job, or on an incident. While many
			of the requirements of the trainer/coach are similar to the
			evaluator, it is important that the roles of training and evaluation
			remain separate.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Training_Officer">
		<glossterm>Training Officer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The chief or other officer under the agency or department
			responsible for organizing and conducting a complete training
			program for the suppression agency.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Training_Specialist">
		<glossterm>Training Specialist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible to the planning section chief for
			coordinating the use of trainees on the incident and for assuring
			that the trainees meet their training objectives and receive
			performance evaluation reports.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>TNSP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Transfer_of_Command">
		<glossterm>Transfer of Command</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The ICS management process in which the on-scene incident
			commander at a specified time hands off command responsibilities to
			the incident commander that will be taking over incident
			command.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Transition">
		<glossterm>Transition</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In the 1978 version of NFDRS, the herbaceous stage when
			herbaceous fuel moisture is between 120% and 30%.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Transition_Zone">
		<glossterm>Transition Zone</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Areas where the fire progress transitions from one direction
			to another which are characterized by change in the appearance of
			the indicators.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Translational_Lift">
		<glossterm>Translational Lift</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Lift that is gained when a helicopter translates from a hover
			into forward flight; additional lift increases with increasing
			airspeed and is derived by the rotor system moving into undisturbed
			air.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Transport_Wind_Speed">
		<glossterm>Transport Wind Speed</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A measure of the average rate of the horizontal transport of
			air within the Mixing Layer. May also be the wind speed at the final
			height of plume rise. Generally refers to the rate at which
			emissions will be transported from one area to another.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Mixing_Layer">
				<linktext>Mixing Layer</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Ventilation_Factor">
				<linktext>Ventilation Factor</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Transportation_Map">
		<glossterm>Transportation Map</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Base map of the planning unit showing all roads, trails,
			heliports, and airfields existing and programmed for
			construction.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Travel_Time">
		<glossterm>Travel Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Compensable time en route to or from an emergency
			incident.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Travel_Time_Map">
		<glossterm>Travel Time Map</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Map showing the time required for the initial attack crew to
			reach various parts of a protection unit from specified
			positions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Trench">
		<glossterm>Trench</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A small ditch often constructed below a fire on sloping ground
			(undercut or underslung line) to catch rolling material.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Trial">
		<glossterm>Trial</glossterm>
		<glossdef>None</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Trough">
		<glossterm>Trough</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An elongated area of relatively low atmospheric pressure,
			usually extending from the center of a low pressure
			system.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Truck_Trail">
		<glossterm>Truck Trail</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Substantial transportation route for fire suppression motor
			vehicles, built prior to a fire. Also called fire road.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="True_Airspeed">
		<glossterm>True Airspeed</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Velocity of an aircraft in its flight path relative to the air
			through which it is moving.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="True_Bearing">
		<glossterm>True Bearing</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Bearing by true north rather than magnetic north.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Turbulence">
		<glossterm>Turbulence</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Irregular motion of the atmosphere usually produced when air
			flows over a comparatively uneven surface such as the surface of the
			earth; or when two currents of air flow past or over each other in
			different directions or at different speeds.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Turn_the_Corner">
		<glossterm>Turn the Corner</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Contain a fire along a flank of the fire and begin containing
			it across the head. Refers to ground or air attack.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Turnaround_Time">
		<glossterm>Turnaround Time</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Time used by an air tanker or helitanker to reload and return
			to the fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Turnout_Coat">
		<glossterm>Turnout Coat</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A coat with a fire resistant outer shell and a thermal and
			moisture barrier liner. Used primarily by structure firefighters.
			Also called fire coat.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Two-Way_Radio">
		<glossterm>Two-Way Radio</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Radio equipment with transmitters in mobile units on the same
			frequency as the base station, permitting conversation in two
			directions using the same frequency in turn.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Type">
		<glossterm>Type</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Refers to resource capability. A Type 1 resource provides a
			greater overall capability due to power, size, capacity, etc., than
			would be found in a Type 2 resource. Resource typing provides
			managers with additional information in selecting the best resource
			for the task.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ultra_High_Frequency">
		<glossterm>Ultra High Frequency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Radio frequencies from 300 Megahertz (MHz) to 3,000 MHz with a
			normal range of less than 50 miles. Radio frequency common to
			military aircraft and used in the logistics radio system. The most
			common frequencies used by fire and public safety are from 406 MHz
			to 512 MHz.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>UHF-FM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Unacceptable_Risk">
		<glossterm>Unacceptable Risk</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Level of risk as determined by the risk management process
			which cannot be mitigated to an acceptable safe level.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Unacceptable Fire Risk</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Uncontrolled_Airport">
		<glossterm>Uncontrolled Airport</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Airport not having an approved agency with radio
			communications to direct aircraft take-offs and landings.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Uncontrolled_Fire">
		<glossterm>Uncontrolled Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any fire which threatens to destroy life, property, or natural
			resources, and (a) is not burning within the confines of firebreaks,
			or (b) is burning with such intensity that it could not be readily
			extinguished with ordinary tools commonly available.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Wildfire">
				<linktext>Wildfire</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Underburn">
		<glossterm>Underburn</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire that consume surface fuels but not the overstory
			canopy.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Understory_Burning">
				<linktext>Understory Burning</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Undercut_Line">
		<glossterm>Undercut Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fireline below a fire on a slope. Should be trenched to
			catch rolling material. Also called underslung line.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Cup_Trench">
				<linktext>Cup Trench</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Understory_Burning">
		<glossterm>Understory Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Prescribed burning under a forest canopy.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Underburn">
				<linktext>Underburn</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Unicom">
		<glossterm>Unicom</glossterm>
		<glossdef>VHF/AM aircraft radio frequencies assigned by the FAA for use
			in air-to-ground communications at uncontrolled airfields. The
			frequencies most commonly used are 122.8 MHz and 122.85
			MHz.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Unified_Area_Command">
		<glossterm>Unified Area Command</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A unified area command is established when incidents under an
			area command are multijurisdictional.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Unified_Command">
		<glossterm>Unified Command</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In ICS, unified command is a unified team effort which allows
			all agencies with jurisdictional responsibility for the incident,
			either geographical or functional, to manage an incident by
			establishing a common set of incident objectives and strategies.
			This is accomplished without losing or abdicating authority,
			responsibility, or accountability.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Unit">
		<glossterm>Unit</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The organizational element of an incident having functional
			responsibility for a specific activity in the planning, logistics,
			or finance/administration activity.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Unity_of_Command">
		<glossterm>Unity of Command</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The concept by which each person within an organization
			reports to one and only one designated person.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Unity_of_Effort">
		<glossterm>Unity of Effort</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A command philosophy that encourages leaders to work together
			to find common ground and act in the best interest of those
			responding to the incident, the public, and the resources that are
			threatened.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Unlined_Fire_Hose">
		<glossterm>Unlined Fire Hose</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Hose commonly of cotton, linen, or synthetic fiber
			construction without rubber tube or lining, often used for wildfires
			because of its light weight and self protecting (weeping)
			characteristics; such hose is attached to first-aid standpipes in
			buildings. At a specified flow, friction loss in unlined hose of a
			stated diameter is about twice that of lined fire hose.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Upper_Level_Cold_Low">
		<glossterm>Upper Level (Cold) Low</glossterm>
		<glossdef>(Upper Level Disturbance, Cold Low Aloft) A circulation
			feature of the upper atmosphere where pressure, at a constant
			altitude, is lowest. Winds blow counter-clockwise around the center
			in an approximately circular pattern. Upper level lows are usually
			quite small. The mechanics of these upper lows is such that a pool
			of cool moist air always accompanies their development. There is
			often no evidence of low pressure at the earth's surface. An upper
			low may exist above a surface high pressure system.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Upper_Level_Cold_Trough">
		<glossterm>Upper Level (Cold) Trough</glossterm>
		<glossdef>(Trough, Trough Aloft, Upper Level [Cold] Low) An elongated
			area of relatively low pressure, at constant altitude, in the
			atmosphere. The opposite of an upper level ridge. Upper level
			troughs are usually oriented north-south with the north end open.
			That is, air currents moving from west to east around the earth flow
			around three sides of the trough then turn eastward rather than
			toward the west, as in the case of a closed circulation. A large
			upper level trough may have one or more small upper level closed low
			circulation systems within it.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Upper_Level_High">
		<glossterm>Upper Level High</glossterm>
		<glossdef>(Upper High, High Aloft, Upper Level Ridge) A circulation
			feature of the upper atmosphere where pressure, at a constant
			altitude, is higher than in the surrounding region. Winds blow
			clockwise around an upper level high. Air in an upper level high is
			usually subsiding. This results in comparatively warm dry air with
			light winds over a large area. An upper level high may exist without
			there being high pressure at the earth's surface.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Upper_Level_Ridge">
		<glossterm>Upper Level Ridge</glossterm>
		<glossdef>(Upper Level High, Ridge Aloft) An elongated area of
			relatively high pressure, at a constant altitude, in the atmosphere.
			The opposite of an upper level trough. Upper level ridges are often
			oriented north-south, alternating between upper level troughs,
			however, during summer they may assume random orientations and vast
			dimensions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Use_Level">
		<glossterm>Use Level</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The appropriate ratio of liquid foam concentrate to water
			recommended by the chemical manufacturer for each class of fire,
			usually expressed as a percent (such as 0.5%).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Useful_Load">
		<glossterm>Useful Load</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Maximum computed gross weight minus equipped weight of a
			helicopter.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="VHF_Omnidirectional_Radio_Range">
		<glossterm>VHF Omnidirectional Radio Range</glossterm>
		<glossdef>System of radio navigation in which any magnetic bearing
			relative to a special radio transmitter on the ground may be chosen
			and flown by an aircraft pilot.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>VOR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="V_Pattern">
		<glossterm>V Pattern</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Characteristics fire cone-shaped pattern left by a fire on a
			wall, at or near its point of origin.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#V_Pattern_Indicators">
				<linktext>V Pattern Indicators</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="V_Pattern_Indicators">
		<glossterm>V Pattern Indicators</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The overall "V" or "U" shape of the exterior perimeter of a
			fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Values_To_Be_Protected">
		<glossterm>Values To Be Protected</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Include property, structures, physical improvements, natural
			and culture resources, community infrastructure, and economic,
			environmental, and social values.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Values-At-Risk</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Vapor_Suppression">
		<glossterm>Vapor Suppression</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Creating a seal with foam which prevents a release of
			flammable vapors from fuels.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Variable">
		<glossterm>Variable</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any changing characteristic; in statistics, a measurable
			characteristic of an experimental unit.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Variable_Ceiling">
		<glossterm>Variable Ceiling</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A ceiling of less than 3,000 feet (900 m) which rapidly
			increases or decreases in height by one or more reportable values
			during the period of observation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Variable_Danger">
		<glossterm>Variable Danger</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Resultant of all fire danger factors that vary from day to
			day, month to month, or year to year (e.g., fire weather, fuel
			moisture content, condition of vegetation, variable risk)</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Variable_Sky_Condition">
		<glossterm>Variable Sky Condition</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A sky condition that varies between reportable values of sky
			cover amounts during the period of observation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Variable_Visibility">
		<glossterm>Variable Visibility</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A condition when the prevailing visibility is less than 3
			miles (5 km) and rapidly increases and decreases by one or more
			reportable values during the period of observation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Variable_Wind_Direction">
		<glossterm>Variable Wind Direction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Wind direction which varies by 60 degrees or more during the
			period of time the wind direction is being determined.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Vectors">
		<glossterm>Vectors</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Directions of fire spread as related to rate of spread
			calculations (in degrees from upslope).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Vegetative_Regeneration">
		<glossterm>Vegetative Regeneration</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Development of new aboveground plants from surviving plant
			parts, such as by sprouting from a root crown or rhizomes. Even if
			plants form their own root system, they are still genetically the
			same as the parent plant.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Vegetative_Reproduction">
		<glossterm>Vegetative Reproduction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Establishment of a new plant from a seed that is a genetically
			distinct individual.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Vehicle_Fire">
		<glossterm>Vehicle Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire originating in or on a vehicle or mobile
			equipment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Vent">
		<glossterm>Vent</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The release of enclosed smoke and heat from a structure by
			creating openings in it, as by hacking a hole in the roof, to allow
			free passage of air.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ventilation_Factor">
		<glossterm>Ventilation Factor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A numerical value relating the potential of the atmosphere to
			disperse airborne pollutants from a stationary source, calculated by
			multiplying the mixing height by the transport wind
			speed.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Mixing_Layer">
				<linktext>Mixing Layer</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Transport_Wind_Speed">
				<linktext>Transport Wind Speed</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Ventilation_Index">
		<glossterm>Ventilation Index</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A measure of the volume rate of horizontal transport of air
			within the mixing layer, per unit distance, normal to the wind.
			Units are measured in square meters per second or
			knot-feet.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Vertical_Fuel_Arrangement">
		<glossterm>Vertical Fuel Arrangement</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fuels above ground and their vertical continuity, which
			influences fire reaching various levels or vegetation
			strata.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Vertical_Temperature_Profile">
		<glossterm>Vertical Temperature Profile</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Plot of the actual dry-bulb temperature against height above
			the earth's surface, most commonly determined by a RAWINSONDE
			observation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Very_High_Frequency">
		<glossterm>Very High Frequency</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Radio frequency range from 30 MHz to 299 MHz. The sub-bands
			most commonly used by fire are: VHF-FM Lo band: Frequency Modulation
			30 MHz - 80 MHz, of which fire frequencies are between 30 MHz and 50
			MHz. VHF-FM Hi band: Frequency Modulation 150 MHz - 174 MHz. This is
			the most widely used band by fire agencies. VHF-AM: Amplitude
			Modulation. This band is commonly referred to as the "Victor or VHF"
			band. The frequency range is from 118 MHz to 136 MHz. The only
			authorized use of this band is for aviation. The FAA controls and
			assigns all frequencies within this sub-band.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>VHF-AM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Vigor">
		<glossterm>Vigor</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A subjective assessment of the health of individual plants in
			similar site and growing conditions; or a more specific measure
			based upon a specific facet of growth, such as seed stalk or tiller
			production per plant or per unit area.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Virga">
		<glossterm>Virga</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Precipitation falling out of a cloud but evaporating before
			reaching the ground.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Viscosity">
		<glossterm>Viscosity</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Thickness of a liquid, the degree to which it resists
			flow.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Viscous_Water">
		<glossterm>Viscous Water</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Water that contains a thickening agent to reduce surface
			runoff; tends to cling to burning fuels and spread in layers that
			are several times thicker than plain water, thereby having an
			increased capacity to absorb heat, cool fuel, and exclude oxygen.
			Also called thickened water.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Visibility">
		<glossterm>Visibility</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The greatest horizontal distance at which selected objects can
			be seen and identified, or its equivalent derived from instrumental
			measurements.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Visible_Area_Map">
		<glossterm>Visible Area Map</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Map showing the different classes of visible area covered by a
			lookout point or points; may differentiate between seen areas,
			indirectly visible areas, and blind areas, or only between seen
			areas and blind areas. Also called seen area map.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Seen_Area">
				<linktext>Seen Area</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Visual_Flight_Rules_Conditions">
		<glossterm>Visual Flight Rules Conditions</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Basic weather conditions prescribed for flight under Visual
			Flight Rules: ceiling above 1,000 feet (300 m) and flight visibility
			in excess of 3 miles (5 km).</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>VFR</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Instrument_Flight_Rules_Conditions">
				<linktext>Instrument Flight Rules Conditions</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Visual_Greenness">
		<glossterm>Visual Greenness</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An NDVI-derived image of vegetation greenness compared to a
			very green reference such as a golf course.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>VG</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Greenness_Factor">
				<linktext>Greenness Factor</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Visual_Range">
		<glossterm>Visual Range</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Maximum distance at which a given object can just be seen by
			an observer with normal vision.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Visual_Resource_Management">
		<glossterm>Visual Resource Management</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The inventory and planning actions taken to identify visual
			values and to establish objectives for managing those values; and
			the management actions taken to achieve the visual management
			objectives.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>VRM</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Visual_Resources">
		<glossterm>Visual Resources</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The visible physical features on a landscape (e.g., land,
			water, vegetation, animals, structures and other
			features).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Volatile">
		<glossterm>Volatile</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Readily changeable into vapor at low temperatures.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Volatiles">
		<glossterm>Volatiles</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Readily vaporized organic materials which, when mixed with
			oxygen, are easily ignited.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Volunteer_Fire_Company">
		<glossterm>Volunteer Fire Company</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire department company or a response unit, the members of
			which are not paid.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Volunteer_Fire_Department">
		<glossterm>Volunteer Fire Department</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A fire department of which some or all members are
			unpaid.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>VFD</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Volunteer_Firefighter">
		<glossterm>Volunteer Firefighter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Legally enrolled firefighter under the fire department
			organization laws who devotes time and energy to community fire
			service without compensation other than Worker's Compensation or
			other similar death and injury benefits.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Vortex_Turbulence">
		<glossterm>Vortex Turbulence</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Miniature whirlwinds trailing from the wingtips of any
			aircraft in flight. Vortex will be in the form of a horizontal
			whirlwind with velocities up to 25 mph (40 km) per hour or more.
			Also created by action of rotor blades on helicopters; these
			whirlwinds tend to move downward toward the ground. If an aircraft
			flies low over a fire, vortices may reach the ground and suddenly
			cause violent and erratic fire behavior.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Walk_Test">
		<glossterm>Walk Test</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The walk test is designed to determine the ability to carry
			out light duties. It consists of a one-mile test with no load that
			approximates an aerobic fitness score of 35. A time of 16 minutes,
			the passing score for this test, ensures the ability to meet
			emergency and evacuate to a safety zone.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Work_Capacity_Test">
				<linktext>Work Capacity Test</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Warm_Front">
		<glossterm>Warm Front</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The leading edge of a relatively warm air mass which moves in
			such a way that warm air replaces colder air that moves away from a
			region. Winds associated with warm frontal activity are usually
			light and mixing is limited. The atmosphere is relatively stable
			when compared to cold front activity.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Water_Bar">
		<glossterm>Water Bar</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A shallow channel or raised barrier, e.g., a ridge of packed
			earth or a thin pole laid diagonally across the surface of a road or
			trail so as to lead off water, particularly storm water. (Frequently
			installed in firelines on steep slopes to prevent
			erosion.)</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Water_Expansion_Pumping_System">
		<glossterm>Water Expansion Pumping System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Apparatus utilizing an air compressor and positive
			displacement pump coupled to the same engine, plumbed to a
			non-pressurized tank, for producing foam. The operation involves
			injecting compressed air into a liquid stream containing a suitable
			foaming agent.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>WEPS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Water_Expansion_System">
		<glossterm>Water Expansion System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Apparatus utilizing a pressurized tank, hose, and nozzle for
			producing foam by injection of compressed air or gas into a liquid
			stream downstream from the pumping source. The liquid stream must
			contain a suitable foaming agent.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>WES</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Water_Hammer">
		<glossterm>Water Hammer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A force created by the rapid acceleration or deceleration of
			water, commonly created by opening or closing a valve too quickly.
			Pressures developed in a water hammer, proportional to the mass
			multiplied by the square of the velocity, can damage a pipe or
			hose.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Water_Resources_Specialist">
		<glossterm>Water Resources Specialist</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible to the planning section chief for
			collecting information of water resources in and adjacent to the
			incident area, determining water use requirements of firefighting
			resources, and providing input to the Incident Action Plan about
			available water resources and/or anticipated shortages.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Water_Source">
		<glossterm>Water Source</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any strategically located supply of water that is readily
			available for pumps, tanks, trucks, helicopters, or fire camp
			use.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Water_Supply_Map">
		<glossterm>Water Supply Map</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A map showing location of supplies of water readily available
			for pumps, tanks, trucks, camp use, etc.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Water_Tender">
		<glossterm>Water Tender</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any ground vehicle capable of transporting specified
			quantities of water.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Water_Thief">
		<glossterm>Water Thief</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A type of bleeder valve designed for installation at
			convenient points in hose lines to permit drawing off water for
			filling backpack pumps or other use without interfering with pump or
			nozzle operation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wave">
		<glossterm>Wave</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A disturbance that transfers energy from one point to another
			point and may take the form of a deformation of pressure or
			temperature. In the atmosphere such disturbances may result in major
			storms or merely result in changes in cloud, wind and temperature
			conditions. Development of a wave on a front usually slows the
			advance of the front due to transfer of energy to the wave
			development and movement.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Weather_Advisory">
		<glossterm>Weather Advisory</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In aviation forecasting, an expression of hazardous weather
			conditions not predicted in the zone weather forecast, as they
			affect the operation of air traffic.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Weather_Information_Management_System">
		<glossterm>Weather Information Management System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A centralized weather data processing system at which daily
			fire danger ratings are produced.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>WIMS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Weather_Observer">
		<glossterm>Weather Observer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Person responsible to the situation unit leader for collecting
			current weather data and information at the incident and providing
			them to an assigned meteorologist, fire behavior specialist, or the
			Situation Unit Leader.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Weighted_Monthly_Occurrence">
		<glossterm>Weighted Monthly Occurrence</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). Number
			used to determine seasonal risk class for a protection unit,
			calculated by multiplying peak monthly average by two and adding
			seasonal monthly average.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Western_Regional_Climate_Center">
		<glossterm>Western Regional Climate Center</glossterm>
		<glossdef>One of six NOAA regional climate centers in the United States
			at which all hourly observations from all RAWS and many AWS are
			archived.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>WRCC</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wet-bulb_Depression">
		<glossterm>Wet-bulb Depression</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The difference between the wet and dry-bulb temperatures
			recorded by a psychrometer; used in conjunction with the dry-bulb
			temperature as a measure of the relative humidity of the
			air.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wet-bulb_Temperature">
		<glossterm>Wet-bulb Temperature</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The lowest temperature to which air can be cooled by
			evaporating water into it at a constant pressure when the heat
			required for evaporation is supplied by the cooling of the air. It
			is measured by the wet bulb thermometer, which usually employs
			wetted wicking on the bulb as a cooling (through evaporation)
			device.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wet-bulb_Thermometer">
		<glossterm>Wet-bulb Thermometer</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In a psychrometer, the thermometer with its bulb covered with
			a jacket of clean muslin which is saturated with distilled water
			before an observation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wet_Foam">
		<glossterm>Wet Foam</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A low expansion foam type with few and varied bubbles and
			rapid drain time which is used for rapid penetration and fire
			extinguishment.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wet_Line">
		<glossterm>Wet Line</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A line of water, or water and chemical retardant, sprayed
			along the ground, and which serves as a temporary control line from
			which to ignite or stop a low-intensity fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wet_Storage">
		<glossterm>Wet Storage</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire retardants mixed with water and stored in tanks at air
			attack bases for immediate use by air tankers.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Dry_Storage">
				<linktext>Dry Storage</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wet_Water">
		<glossterm>Wet Water</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Water with added chemicals, called wetting agents, that
			increase water's spreading and penetrating properties due to a
			reduction in surface tension.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wetting_Agent">
		<glossterm>Wetting Agent</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A chemical that when added to water reduces the surface
			tension of the solution and causes it to spread and penetrate
			exposed objects more effectively than the untreated
			water.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wetting_Rain">
		<glossterm>Wetting Rain</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A widespread rain that over an extended period of time
			significantly reduces fire danger. One-tenth of an inch may be
			sufficient to reduce fire danger in grass fuel models. One half inch
			may be necessary for timber fuels under closed canopies.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wheelbase">
		<glossterm>Wheelbase</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The distance from the centerline of the front axle to the
			centerline of the rear axle. For a tandem rear axle vehicle the
			center line is midpoint between the centers of the two rear
			axles.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Widow-Maker">
		<glossterm>Widow-Maker</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A loose limb or top or piece of bark lodged in a tree, which
			may fall on anyone working beneath it.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wildfire">
		<glossterm>Wildfire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An unplanned, unwanted wildland fire including unauthorized
			human-caused fires, escaped wildland fire use events, escaped
			prescribed fire projects, and all other wildland fires where the
			objective is to put the fire out.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Uncontrolled_Fire">
				<linktext>Uncontrolled Fire</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Wildland_Fire">
				<linktext>Wildland Fire</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wildfire_Suppression">
		<glossterm>Wildfire Suppression</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An appropriate management response to wildfire, escaped
			wildland fire use or prescribed fire that results in curtailment of
			fire spread and eliminates all identified threats from the
			particular fire.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wildland">
		<glossterm>Wildland</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An area in which development is essentially non-existent,
			except for roads, railroads, powerlines, and similar transportation
			facilities. Structures, if any, are widely scattered.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wildland_Fire">
		<glossterm>Wildland Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any non-structure fire that occurs in the wildland. Three
			distinct types of wildland fire have been defined and include
			wildfire, wildland fire use, and prescribed fire.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Prescribed_Fire">
				<linktext>Prescribed Fire</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Wildfire">
				<linktext>Wildfire</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Wildland_Fire_Use">
				<linktext>Wildland Fire Use</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wildland_Fire_Assessment_System">
		<glossterm>Wildland Fire Assessment System</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An internet-based information system, providing national views
			of weather and fire potential, including national fire danger and
			weather maps and satellite-derived greenness maps.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>WFAS</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wildland_Fire_Implementation_Plan">
		<glossterm>Wildland Fire Implementation Plan</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A progressively developed assessment and operational
			management plan that documents the analysis and describes the
			appropriate management response for a wildland fire.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>WFIP</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Implementation_Plan">
				<linktext>Implementation Plan</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wildland_Fire_Investigator">
		<glossterm>Wildland Fire Investigator</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An individual responsible for identifying and securing a
			wildfire's origin and determining the probable cause and documenting
			causal factors in a case report. INVF may not be directly assigned
			to an incident, working in conjunction with incident management as
			not to interfere with incident operations, while ensuring that an
			incident does not impede the on-scene investigation.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>INVF</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wildland_Fire_Leadership_Principles">
		<glossterm>Wildland Fire Leadership Principles</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Eleven principles describing tangible behaviors that reflect
			and demonstrate the wildland fire leadership values. The eleven
			principles are: 1. Be proficient in your job. 2. Make sound and
			timely decisions. 3. Ensure tasks are understood, supervised, and
			accomplished. 4. Develop your subordinates for the future. 5. Know
			your subordinates and look out for their well-being. 6. Keep your
			subordinates informed. 7. Build the team. 8. Employ your
			subordinates in accordance with their capabilities. 9. Know yourself
			and seek improvement. 10. Seek responsibility and accept
			responsibility for your actions. 11. Set the example.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Wildland_Fire_Leadership_Values">
				<linktext>Wildland Fire Leadership Values</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wildland_Fire_Leadership_Values">
		<glossterm>Wildland Fire Leadership Values</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Three guiding values that should be the basis for the
			decisions that leaders make. The three values are: 1. Duty – How a
			leader values their job. Duty begins with everything required by law
			and policy, but is much more than that. A leader commits to
			excellence in all aspects of their professional responsibility so
			that when the job is done they can look back and say, "I couldn't
			have given any more." 2. Respect – How a leader values their
			co-workers. Respect for the individual forms the very basis for the
			rule of law in America. This value reminds leaders that those who
			follow are their greatest resource. Not all followers will succeed
			equally, but they all deserve respect. 3. Integrity – How a leader
			values himself or herself. An individual cannot be in charge of
			others unless they are in charge of their own actions. People of
			integrity separate what is right from what is wrong and act
			according to what they know is right, even at personal
			cost.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Wildland_Fire_Leadership_Principles">
				<linktext>Wildland Fire Leadership Principles</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wildland_Fire_Management_Information">
		<glossterm>Wildland Fire Management Information</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A Web site providing current weather and lightning data, as
			well as historic fire occurrence data. NWCG Unit Identifiers are
			also maintained on the site.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>WFMI</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wildland_Fire_Serious_Accident">
		<glossterm>Wildland Fire Serious Accident</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Any accident where one or more fatalities occur and/or three
			or more personnel are inpatient hospitalized as a direct result, or
			in support of wildland fire suppression or prescribed fire
			operations. Accident may result in substantial property or equipment
			damage of $250,000 or more.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wildland_Fire_Situation_Analysis">
		<glossterm>Wildland Fire Situation Analysis</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A decision-making process that evaluates alternative wildfire
			suppression strategies against selected environmental, social,
			political, and economic criteria, and provides a record of those
			decisions.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>WFSA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Escaped Fire Situation Analysis</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>EFSA</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wildland_Fire_Use">
		<glossterm>Wildland Fire Use</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The application of the appropriate management response to
			naturally-ignited wildland fires to accomplish specific resource
			management objectives in pre-defined designated areas outlined in
			Fire Management Plans. Operational management is described in the
			Wildland Fire Implementation Plan (WFIP).</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Prescribed Natural Fire</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Prescribed_Fire">
				<linktext>Prescribed Fire</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Wildland_Fire">
				<linktext>Wildland Fire</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wildland_Urban_Interface">
		<glossterm>Wildland Urban Interface</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The line, area, or zone where structures and other human
			development meet or intermingle with undeveloped wildland or
			vegetative fuels.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossSynonym>Urban Interface</glossSynonym>
			</glossAlt>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>WUI</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wind">
		<glossterm>Wind</glossterm>
		<glossdef>The horizontal movement of air relative to the surface of the
			earth.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wind-driven_Wildland_Fire">
		<glossterm>Wind-driven Wildland Fire</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A wildland fire that is controlled by a strong consistent
			wind.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wind_Direction">
		<glossterm>Wind Direction</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Compass direction from which wind is blowing.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wind_Profile">
		<glossterm>Wind Profile</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A chart of wind speed in relation to height, most commonly
			determined by a pilot balloon observation.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wind_Shear">
		<glossterm>Wind Shear</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A variation in wind speed and/or direction in a layer of the
			atmosphere or between layers. The variation may be in the horizontal
			or vertical dimensions and may result in significant turbulence
			depending upon the magnitude of the wind speed/direction
			differences. A strong wind shear may act like an inversion and
			inhibit plume rise. It may also fracture the smoke plume, not
			allowing smoke to rise much above terrain levels. A strong
			horizontal anticyclonic shear results in downward motion and may
			bring smoke aloft to the surface.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wind_Shift">
		<glossterm>Wind Shift</glossterm>
		<glossdef>For aviation purposes, a change in the average wind direction
			of 45 degrees or more which takes place in less than 15 minutes if
			the wind speed during this period is 6 knots (3 m/s) or
			greater.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wind_Shift1">
		<glossterm>Wind Shift</glossterm>
		<glossdef>For ground observation purposes, a change of at least 45
			degrees in the direction of a significant wind, which occurs in a
			relatively short time frame.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wind_Speed">
		<glossterm>Wind Speed</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Wind, in miles per hour, measured at 20 feet above open, level
			ground or as adjusted to meet this standard to compensate for height
			of ground cover, uneven ground, and nearby obstructions.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wind_Speed1">
		<glossterm>Wind Speed</glossterm>
		<glossdef>(NFDRS) Wind, in mph, measured at 20 feet above ground, or
			above the average height of vegetation, and averaged over at least a
			10-minute period. Also called wind velocity.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wind_Vectors">
		<glossterm>Wind Vectors</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Wind directions used to calculate fire behavior.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Windfall">
		<glossterm>Windfall</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Tree that has been uprooted or broken off by wind.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Windrow_Burning">
		<glossterm>Windrow Burning</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Burning slash that has been piled into long continuous rows.
			Also includes wildfire in vegetation planted to protect improvements
			or agriculture.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Winds_Aloft">
		<glossterm>Winds Aloft</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Generally, wind speeds and wind directions at various levels
			in the atmosphere above the domain of surface weather
			observations.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Windspeed_Meter">
		<glossterm>Windspeed Meter</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A handheld device which indicates wind speed, usually in miles
			per hour.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Woody_Fuel_Moisture">
		<glossterm>Woody Fuel Moisture</glossterm>
		<glossdef>In NFDRS, a calculated value representing the approximate
			moisture content of the live woody vegetation in the rating area
			expressed as a percentage of the oven dry weight of the
			sample.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Herbaceous_Fuel_Moisture">
				<linktext>Herbaceous Fuel Moisture</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Measured_Woody_Fuel_Moisture">
				<linktext>Measured Woody Fuel Moisture</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Woody_Vegetation_Condition">
				<linktext>Woody Vegetation Condition</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Woody_Vegetation_Condition">
		<glossterm>Woody Vegetation Condition</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Part of the National Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS). A code
			reflecting the moisture content of the foliage and small twigs [less
			than 1/4 inch (0.6 cm)] of living woody plants.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Woody_Fuel_Moisture">
				<linktext>Woody Fuel Moisture</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Work_Rest_Ratio">
		<glossterm>Work/Rest Ratio</glossterm>
		<glossdef>An expression of the amount of rest that is required for each
			hour an individual is in work status. Current NWCG guidelines
			require one hour of rest for every two hours in work
			status.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Work_Capacity_Test">
		<glossterm>Work Capacity Test</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A family of tests to determine firefighter physical
			capabilities. Work capacity tests are used to ensure that persons
			assigned to fire activities are physically capable of performing the
			duties of wildland firefighting and to meet National Wildfire
			Coordinating Group (NWCG) standards for wildland firefighters
			(Wildland Fire Qualification Subsystem Guide 310-1, NWCG, 1993). The
			WCT is a family of tests to determine firefighter physical
			capabilities at three levels: Arduous: "Duties involve field work
			requiring physical performance calling for above-average endurance
			and superior conditioning. These duties may include an occasional
			demand for extraordinarily strenuous activities in emergencies under
			adverse environmental conditions and over extended periods.
			Requirements include running, walking, climbing, jumping, twisting,
			bending, and lifting more than 50 pounds; the pace of work typically
			is set by the emergency condition." Moderate: "Duties involve field
			work requiring complete control of all physical faculties and may
			include considerable walking over irregular ground, standing for
			long periods, lifting 25 to 50 pounds, climbing, bending, stooping,
			squatting, twisting, and reaching. Occasional demands may be
			required for moderately strenuous activities in emergencies over
			long periods. Individuals usually set their own work pace." Light:
			"Duties mainly involve office-type work with occasional field
			activity characterized by light physical exertion requiring basic
			good health. Activities may include climbing stairs, standing,
			operating a vehicle, and long hours of work, as well as some
			bending, stooping, or light lifting. Individuals almost always can
			govern the extent and pace of their physical activity" Each
			performance level has its own unique Work Capacity Test: Pack Test:
			The pack test is a job-related test of the capacity for arduous
			work. It consists of a 3-mile hike with a 45-pound pack over level
			terrain. A time of 45 minutes, the passing score for the test,
			approximates an aerobic fitness score of 45, the established
			standard for wildland firefighters. Field Test: The field test is a
			job-related test of work capacity designed for those with moderately
			strenuous duties. It consists of a 2-mile hike with a 25-pound pack.
			A time of 30 minutes, the passing score, approximates an aerobic
			fitness score of 40. Walk Test: The walk test is designed to
			determine the ability to carry out light duties. It consists of a
			1-mile test with no load that approximates an aerobic fitness score
			of 35. A time of 16 minutes, the passing score for the test, ensures
			the ability to meet emergencies and evacuate to a safety
			zone.</glossdef>
		<glossBody>
			<glossAlt>
				<glossAcronym>WCT</glossAcronym>
			</glossAlt>
		</glossBody>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Woven_Jacket_Fire_Hose">
		<glossterm>Woven Jacket Fire Hose</glossterm>
		<glossdef>Fire hose of conventional construction, woven on looms from
			fibers of cotton or synthetic fibers. Most fire department hose is
			double jacketed (i.e., it has an outer jacket protecting the inner
			one against wear and abrasion).</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Wye">
		<glossterm>Wye</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A hose connection with two outlets permitting two connections
			of the same coupling diameter to be taken from a single supply
			line.</glossdef>
		<related-links>
			<link href="#Reversible_Siamese">
				<linktext>Reversible Siamese</linktext>
			</link>
			<link href="#Siamese">
				<linktext>Siamese</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>
	</glossentry>
	<glossentry id="Zone_Weather_Forecast">
		<glossterm>Zone Weather Forecast</glossterm>
		<glossdef>A portion of the general fire weather forecast issued on a
			regular basis during the normal fire season specifically to fit the
			requirements of fire management needs; i.e., time, areas, and
			weather elements. These zones or areas are a combination of
			administrative and climatological areas, usually nearly the size of
			an individual forest or district.</glossdef>
	</glossentry>
	
</glossgroup>
